
Three letters that strike fear into every Hong Kong student and cause debilitating anxiety. | student
With this year’s exams starting, we need to raise awareness of the tremendous pressure Hong Kong students are under and be mindful of its dangers. | students
the public examination students take in the final year of secondary school – is among the most high-pressure exams in the world. | students
The DSE has a relatively low coursework element and less flexibility – compared with the International Baccalaureate (IB) and the AS and A2 Level exams in the UK – so the fate of students comes down to the final two weeks of exams rather than the pressure being spread throughout the year. | students
Furthermore, university entry requirements in Hong Kong are almost solely DSE-based, drawing a straight connection between the DSE and future employability that cranks up the pressure on students even further.  | students
Since 2013, the second year of the DSE, about 71 students have committed suicide.  | students
For students, there are immense stress levels and various forms of mental illness. | students
During the last months of secondary school, work piles up, extra lessons and tutor classes take up all free time and expectations from various angles suffocate the students. | students
At the same time, tutors like Billy Ng expect students to deal with it all, saying things like: “Young people just have to get over the pressure. | students
One student from this year’s cohort described the pressure they are under as “so overwhelming that I was unable to catch my breath. | student
A protest raising awareness of student suicides. | student
A former DSE student myself, I remember those final exams as the worst time of my life. | student
The intense stress of the DSE period has a potentially traumatic effect that can remain with students long after the event. | students
In the long term, changes must be made in universities’ entry requirements and in the DSE system itself to ease the pressure on students. | students
She is a local student in Hong Kong completing her undergraduate degree in English and working as a tutor of DSE students.    | student
Suicides in Hong Kong Police find suicide notes that describe woman’s devastation from losing her husband in January  Comments:    A woman whose husband killed himself last month was found dead along with her nine-year-old son on Tuesday in what police said was a murder-suicide. | Suicides
Au and her son, a Primary Five student at a Kowloon West school, were last seen on Sunday night when they had dinner with relatives.   | student
mother found the suicide notes and made an emergency call to 999. | suicide
Research shows that the risk of self-harm for those who have lost family members or people close to them through suicide are three times higher than others, according to Vincent Ng Chi-kwan, executive director of non-profit group Suicide Prevention Services. | suicide
The Suicide Prevention Services provides individual and family counselling to those survivors of suicide loss. | Suicide
People who are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000, or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. | Suicide
A hotline for those who have lost a loved one to suicide can be reached on 2382 2737. | suicide
And while officials and residents are increasingly cognisant of the local problem of student suicides, the issue of elderly suicides is largely unacknowledged. | student
Most times, it takes a suicide attempt for family members to realise that seniors are grappling with emotional issues which require counselling. | suicide
There are usually signs of depression before elderly people attempt suicide as they prepare to end their lives. | suicide
The weak appreciation of the size of the problem stands in contrast with the attention which has in recent years been focused on the city’s tragic spate of student suicides. | student
After 71 students between the age of 10 and 30 killed themselves from 2013 to 2016, the Education Bureau set up its Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. | students
According to the data collected by the committee, although the problem persisted, suicides among students in primary and secondary schools had declined over the previous three decades. | suicides
According to figures from HKU’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, the suicide rate for people over 65 in the city stood at 24.2 per 100,000 people per year in 2016, and with the city’s rapidly ageing population the number of elderly people killing themselves is expected to rise in the coming decades. | Suicide
That suicide rate for the elderly – despite having decreased from a 2003 spike of 40.4 – looms much higher than the rate for any other age group. | suicide
So what can be done to help this group clearly at a heightened risk of suicide? | suicide
It can help to understand their daily lives and chat with them about their feelings, which will work well in preventing the possibility of depression as well as suicide. | suicide
We think you'd also like
The shocking picture of mental health in Hong Kong was revealed to a packed audience of students from De Montfort University Leicester (DMU) as part of their #DMUglobal trip. | students
The students from the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences (HLS), who covered a variety of disciplines from mental health and children’s nursing to criminology and psychology, had their eyes opened to the desperate issues affecting Hong Kong with a talk by eminent psychiatrist Dr Sunny Liu.   | students
The trip to the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong was just one of many educational trips HLS students were able to experience during their stay. | Suicide
Dr Liu revealed that Hong Kong has around 1,000 suicides every year and a lot of the mental health problems are due to the stresses of living in the main city. | suicides
The Centre was set up 15 years ago in response to the high suicide rates – and it is making a difference.   | suicide
Dr Liu encouraged the students to remain positive, remain committed and passionate and help make a change for mental health. | students
I found it fascinating that they were talking about housing being a factor in suicide rates and a psychiatrist with his own practise cannot even afford to live in Hong Kong and has a house on a different island. | suicide
(0)116 255 1551 

  
 Suicides in Hong Kong Criticisms that her views were disregarded come as officials seek to engage young people in policymaking Comments:     | Suicides
When Althea Suen Hiu-nam, then president of the University of Hong Kong’s student union, received a phone call from the Education Bureau inviting her to the committee on prevention of student suicides, little did she know the outcome would deviate far from her expectations. | student
From 2013 to last year, 71 pupils and students aged between 10 and 30 killed themselves, prompting the government to set up the ad hoc committee to tackle the issue in March last year. | students
Several times, as I gave my first-person account about flaws in the education system, other committee members dismissed my views as unscientific or not evidence-based,” the final-year social work student claimed. | student
Suen’s criticisms coincided with officials’ renewed efforts to address student suicides and their fresh attempts to give young people more say in policymaking. | student
My main point in the committee was how Hong Kong’s exam-oriented education was creating undue academic pressure and taking a toll on teacher-student relationships as teachers lack sufficient time to take care of students’ mental well-being. | student
After six months of meetings, the committee issued a 150-page report detailing the complex causes of suicides. | suicides
It stated there was “no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system” and | student
Paul Yip Siu-fai, director of HKU’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, chaired the committee and said he welcomed Suen’s participation. | Suicide
Yip appreciated that she invited eight other university student leaders to give their views as speakers.   | student
Although the report found no direct link [between the education system and suicides], that does not mean there’s no link at all,” he added. | suicides
The evidence from our study shows suicides have various and complex causes. | suicides
The 21-year-old woman discovered with head wounds and marks on neck when mother returned home had bought 100 pieces of plastic cable tie Comments:    Police investigating the case of a Hong Kong woman found dead from suffocation offered new evidence on Tuesday that she might have committed suicide. | suicide
While investigating if this was murder, we cannot rule out other possibilities such as suicide. | suicide
We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Problems arising from school work topped the reasons, followed by worry about the future and family disputes Comments:    Suicides among Hong Kong children and adolescents accounted for a quarter of all unnatural deaths in 2012 and 2013, according to a new government report. | Suicides
In those two years there were 20 youngsters between 11 and 17 years old who committed suicide, out of 75 unnatural deaths. | suicide
The figure marked a slight decline from the last report, which said there were 35 suicides in 2010 and 2011. | suicides
The latest numbers, based on reports from the Coroner’s Court, brought the suicide total for teens up to 105 between 2006 and 2013. | suicide
Problems arising from school work topped the reasons for suicide, followed by worry about the future and family disputes. | suicide
We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Tools include flagging worrying posts and featuring help tips more prominently Comments:    A government-appointed student suicide prevention committee has been in talks with Google and Facebook on how to identify and help young people in Hong Kong who have suicidal tendencies. | student
Citing an official report released last week on child fatality, Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, who chairs the committee, said on Sunday that about 70 per cent of young Hongkongers who committed suicide had shown warning signs in different ways. | suicide
Facebook has introduced a suicide prevention tool enabling users to flag posts from friends who show warning signs. | suicide
Google has been featuring search results about suicide prevention help and tips more prominently when users look for particular combinations such as “ways to commit suicide”. | suicide
The committee was set up last year after a worrying spike in the number of youth suicides in the city. | suicides
Dr Liu Kwong-sun, deputy director of the Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong, said many clinical cases showed suicidal intentions existed among pupils in local, direct-subsidy and international schools, students at universities and even adults who had just left the education system and started work. | Suicide
This shows that the society-wide expectation of students is very high, much higher than what students can afford,” Liu said on a radio show on Sunday. | students
Could there be more room for [suicide] prevention? | suicide
No let up in student suicide battle Schools are better prepared to prevent student suicides this year, but more needs to be done through social media, an expert says. | student
"Apart from talking about classes, the schools also tell students to seek help if they have problems," said Paul Yip Siu- fai, the head of the Education Bureau's Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. | students
Yip, director of the University of Hong Kong's Center for Suicide Research and Prevention, was appointed last year to head the panel following a spate of student suicides. | Suicide
Yip said the committee is discussing with social-media giants, including Facebook and Google, about procedures for handling signs of potential suicides on the internet and how to find those students as quickly as possible. | suicides
He said students express such signs in many ways. | students
Yip said the authorities also helped teachers to improve their ability to detect students who have problems, and to put more resources in the education sector. | students
He also appreciated the positive changes in media reports, saying there were fewer sensational reports about students committing suicide in the past six months. | students
The Social Welfare Department's Child Fatality Review Panel released its third report on Thursday, saying there were 20 child or youth suicide cases among 206 deaths of children aged below 18 in 2012 and 2013 reported to the Coroner's Court, including those who died of natural and non- natural causes. | suicide
It also said children and youngsters committing suicide were mainly due to "schoolwork problems, worries about their futures and relationship problems with family members or boyfriends or girlfriends." | suicide
Yip quoted the report as saying about 70 percent of children who committed suicide showed suicidal signs but adults sometimes ignored those signals because they were too busy.   | suicide
Liu also said students face much greater pressure than previous generations. | students
Social welfare sector lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun has hit out at Chief Executive Carrie Lam for neglecting to mention the problem of student suicides in her policy address. | student
During a question-and-answer session at the Legislative Council on Thursday, Shiu told Lam that there were two instances of suicide and attempted suicide earlier that day. | suicide
A CUHK student was taken to the hospital around 2am after a suspected suicide attempt, and an 11-year-old boy in school uniform died after falling from a building in Tai Po, according to Ming Pao and RTHK. | student
Over the past two years, there have been over 72 suicides among young people, from primary school students to postgraduate students. | suicides
Under what circumstances will you properly and solemnly respond to the problem of youth suicides, and host a summit on youth suicides? | suicides
In response, Lam said that there was “no need to use such emotional language,” and added that she started being concerned about youth suicides when she was the Director of Social Welfare. | suicides
If you ask Professor Paul Yip, who has done the most research on suicides in Hong Kong, I have long demonstrated concern over the issue and in order to facilitate his research, I have requested that departments make numbers available to him. | suicides
Shiu Ka-chun holding a list of dates on which students committed suicide. | students
Earlier this year, concern groups petitioned Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung, urging him to hold a summit on youth suicides. | suicides
Her policy address did not mention student suicides specifically, but it said: “Based on the evaluation results of the Student Mental Health Support Pilot Scheme, we will consider ways to provide appropriate support services for students with mental health needs. | student
” If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. | Suicide
Suicides in Hong Kong | Suicides
Its survey finds most support making ‘seven hours or fewer’ standard Comments:    In a bid to ease stress and prevent teen suicide, Hong Kong parents and pupils have called for capping the time children spend on their studies to no more than seven hours a day, effectively sparing them from academic work after school. | suicide
The calls came as a concern group on Sunday released initial findings of its survey to coincide with the 15th annual World Suicide Prevention Day.   | Suicide
Conducted since mid-July by the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention | Student
Alliance spokesman Lai Pak-yin said some students indicated they had spent 13 hours a day studying. | students
She accused Lam – who pledged to make education policy a top priority – of failing to come up with measures to tackle student suicides. | student
It is academic to talk about nurturing future generations or investing in quality education if our students can’t get help to stay alive,” Cheung said. | students
Inspired by a project in New Zealand, about 10 alliance members placed empty shoes on a pavement in Mong Kok on Sunday and observed a minute of silence to commemorate young people who had committed suicide in Hong Kong. | suicide
Students spend on average seven hours a day at school. | Students
Public concerns intensified after a recent spate of student suicides. | student
Last week, a 16-year-old Tuen Mun student who was said to have performed well academically jumped to his death. | student
Two weeks ago, a 19-year-old Institute of Vocational Education student jumped to his death from his Lam Tin home. | student
Last month, a Chinese University student killed herself by inhaling helium at her Ngau Tau Kok home. | student
In Hong Kong, 69 young people aged 24 or below committed suicide last year, up from 65 in 2015, according to figures compiled by the University of Hong Kong’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. | suicide
We think you'd also like
Call to limit student study hours Concern groups proposed the setting of "standard studying hours" to reduce student stress and help to prevent suicides. | student
Extended study time leads to insufficient sleep and play, said the groups  Social Workers Align With Students Under Pressure and Citizens' Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide. | Students
On World Suicide Prevention Day yesterday, the groups urged the government to face up to the problem of students taking their own lives and consider setting regulations or guidelines to restrict the number of study hours - similar to standard working hours for employees. | Suicide
Over the past two months, the groups interviewed 631 students, parents, teachers and social workers, and some 90 percent supported the idea of standard studying hours. | students
Lai Pak-yin, spokesman for Social Workers Align With Students Under Pressure, said many secondary school students spend around 10 hours on their studies every day, with some even taking longer than that. | Students
He also said government suggestions for tackling student suicides are not practical for frontline teachers and social workers - it is more important to stay with students when they are going through a hard time than training them to have a positive attitude. | student
Chan Chi-chung from Citizens' Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide said there should be fundamental changes in the education system, as academic studies are the main source of pressure for students. | Suicide
Cheung said studying seven hours a day is already a long time, and many students do not get eight hours of sleep. | students
The groups are continuing the survey until next month to gather views on ways to reduce students' pressure. | students
They also urged the government to hold a student suicide prevention summit to listen to opinions from society. | student
Universities in Hong Kong Case that sparked outrage and unleashed debate on personal data rights and freedom of speech turned over to school’s disciplinary committee Comments:    The Education University confirmed on Friday that the two men captured on surveillance footage putting up posters on campus mocking the suicide of a top education official’s son were its own students. | suicide
The committee confirmed that the two persons who put up posters on the democracy wall on September 7 were students of the Education University,” a university spokesman said.   | students
The case has been passed to the Student Disciplinary Committee for follow-up action. | Student
On September 7, twelve sheets of A4 paper were affixed to the university’s democracy wall, a space set aside for students to express their views. | students
In its response, however, the university’s student union emphasised the importance of free speech. | student
The committee comprises the director of student affairs, teaching staff and student union representatives. | student
According to school regulations, the most serious punishment the students could face is expulsion. | students
“Society also holds university students to certain expectations. | students
We think you'd also like
Groups concerned about student suicides have urged Hong Kong’s chief executive to face up to the tragic problem of children and teenagers taking their own lives. | student
A total of 3,919 individuals and 123 civil groups have signed an online petition to urge Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor to pay attention to  student suicides and carry out changes in the education system, Apple Daily reported. | student
Groups including the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention and Parents United of Hong Kong will hold a protest on Sunday in which 74 people will walk barefoot from the Legislative Council to the chief executive’s office. | Student
A total of 74 children and teenagers committed suicide in the past two years in Hong Kong. | suicide
The groups slammed Lam for failing to come up with any measures to  combat youth suicides since becoming the city’s chief executive in July, and only focusing on economic development in her first Policy Address, which she gave this month. | suicides
They urged the Hong Kong government to set up a cross-departmental task force to tackle student suicides and to evaluate education policy. | student
They also asked the government to provide funding of HK$200,000 (US$25,630) to each school for the implementation of programs to ease the pressure students are under, fully implement “rest days | students
– that is,  school days that have no classes and free students just to  | students
Two students commit suicide in one day, a third boy saved Read:  | students
Student stressed about final exams jumps to death at school

An 11-year-old boy and a 17-year-old Secondary 6 student jumped to their deaths from buildings in Tai Po, New Territories, and Kowloon’s Yau Tong respectively on Thursday, and an 18-year-old schoolboy was saved after jumping into a river. | Student
At 11:30 the same morning, a 17-year-old male student jumped from the rooftop of the Domain Mall in Yau Tong. | student
Social-welfare-sector lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun accused Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor at the Legislative Council on Thursday of lack of concern about youngsters committing suicide. | suicide
A total of 72 students committed suicide in the past two years in the city, Shui said, adding: “72 is not a number | students
The Samaritans run a 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline +852 2896 0000 or e-mails can be sent to jo@samaritans.org.hk.

 | suicide
More than 100 people took part in a barefoot march on Sunday in Hong Kong, calling on the government to pay more attention to the issue of student suicides.   | student
The rally, led by members from two concern groups — the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention, and Parents United of Hong Kong | Student
During the event, protesters demanded that Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor take the youth suicide problem seriously and carry out changes in the education system, Apple Daily reports. | suicide
The march came amid mounting concerns among parents, teachers and social workers after Hong Kong witnessed 74 student suicides in the city between August 2015 and October 12 this year. | student
During the rally Sunday, protestors took off their shoes and placed them on a black banner on the floor, with all 74 suicide dates marked out on the banner in order to remind the public of the tragic incidents. | suicide
By visualizing the suicide cases in such a way, the group said it hoped to raise awareness in society about the problem. | suicide
After the demonstration was over, the protestors all bowed down in silence as the dates of the students’ suicides were recited. | suicides
Both the organizations backed Legislator Shiu Ka-chun’s idea that the government should launch a summit to handle student suicide problems, news website | student
The idea was rejected by Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Law Chi-kwong, with the official arguing that a high-profile summit would only “spread the infectious idea of suicide”. | suicide
The concern groups responded by stating that the summit would not tackle each suicide case individually, but will only discuss ways to improve the entire system as a whole. | suicide
Yam said he joined Sunday’s protest because he believes the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education examination is causing too much stress for students. | students
Yam told Apple Daily that each time a student commits suicide, he feels as if he himself had been the executioner as he had been teaching them and giving them homework. | student
As the Hong Kong education system puts too much stress on results, many schools had pushed their students too hard and made matters worse. | students
- Contact us at [email protected] EL/BN/RC 
 Music Stunned by the suicides of Soundgarden’s Chris Cornell and Linkin Park’s Chester Bennington, and of people close to band members, The Raptors are joining The David Bowie Knives, Jimmy2Times and The Privateers for a benefit gig at Kitec Comments:    Last May, singer Chris Cornell – the frontman of Soundgarden and a member of Audioslave – was found dead in a Detroit hotel room. | suicides
The suicides shocked and saddened music fans around the world, and in Hong Kong, local rock band The Raptors was especially hard hit. | suicides
Both he and Suen have lost someone close to them to suicide. | suicide
In 2006, Sutcliffe’s brother, who had a history of depression, committed suicide. | suicide
They experienced not only the pain of losing someone they loved, but also the taboo surrounding suicide, and the reluctance of people to openly discuss their thoughts and feelings for fear of being stigmatised. | suicide
Sutcliffe had no idea his brother was at risk of suicide. | suicide
“Being aware of people’s mental health issues is fundamental to suicide prevention. | suicide
It’s incumbent on people who have survived suicide to talk about how terrible and how lasting it is. | suicide
Wanting to mark the passing of two of their favourite musicians and create an environment in which suicide can be discussed without stigma, they decided to host a charity concert, with money raised going to aid the Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. | suicide
Suicide Prevention Starts With Suicide Awareness | Suicide
His suicide shocked his family, friends and the school, where his wife and some bandmates worked. | suicide
In 2016, 1,000 people in Hong Kong committed suicide, and the number fluctuates annually between 800 and 1,200, says Clarence Tsang, executive director of Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. | suicide
Student suicides tend to cluster at the start of an academic year or term, he says. | Student
Since her boyfriend’s suicide, Suen says, she has been very aware of friends who are struggling and goes out of her way to be there for them. | suicide
It is not uncommon for those close to someone who committed suicide to fall into depression themselves. | suicide
Suicide is a risk for the bereaved. | Suicide
In the last three or four years, the Western community in Hong Kong has been trying to do more in suicide prevention work and we are getting more support. | suicide
Tickets for Hong Kong’s first benefit gig to raise suicide awareness are on sale now through Cityline, which can be accessed through the concert’s homepage somewhereibelong.org. | suicide
24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: + | Suicide
We think you'd also like
The government is under pressure to take measures after three student suicide cases were reported in one day on Thursday. | student
One of the victims, an 18-year-old secondary 6 student, was saved by passers-by after he jumped into the river from a pedestrian overpass near the Tai Po Mega Mall, Apple Daily reports. | student
A secondary six student also died in hospital after he jumped off the top of the Domain Mall in Yau Tong at about 11:21 a.m. | student
Social welfare functional constituency lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun and the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention urged the government to take action to prevent a recurrence of the incidents. | Student
They proposed a government-led anti-teenage suicide summit to help tackle the problem.   | suicide
More than 20 students have committed suicide so far this year, according to Apple Daily. | students
Here is the 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline of The Samaritans: +852 2896 0000 (or email [email protected]). | suicide
Another poster making light of the dead, this time mainland dissident and Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo, appears on campus Comments:    Hundreds of school principals have condemned the taunting of a top education official over the suicide of her eldest son, amid signs of a backlash by prospective employers against students from the university at the centre of the storm. | suicide
By Saturday night, schools had rejected 10 internships for Education University undergraduates as other employers threatened to never hire its graduates, said the student union president, quoting a university staff member at a meeting with union representatives. | student
Students must complete internships before they can graduate. | Students
The university received 1,700 signatures from various groups, including 524 school principals, voicing their disapproval over the message, which “congratulated” Undersecretary for Education Christine Choi Yuk-lin on the suicide of her 25-year-old son. | suicide
While the student union rejected the message, it defended the poster in the name of freedom of speech, drawing further ire as others, including Lam, made clear such freedoms do not override moral values. | student
At the moment there is no evidence to support that it was done by EdU’s students. | students
I do not think it is fair to students and teachers,” Lai said.   | students
Teachers are role models for students. | students
It was not clear if they were students, because the trio fled the scene. | students
The student union attacked the university’s reactions to the two messages as being “vastly different”. | student
On the one hand principals are condemning the students for [making morally controversial statements], but at the same time they choose to destroy their chances at a future. | students
The students should not all be tarred with the same brush. | students
The two individuals appeared to be around 20 years old, but it remains unclear whether they are students at EdUHK. | students
If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. | Suicide
Suicides in Hong Kong Paul Yip says everyone in society has a role to play in preventing suicide, by choosing our words carefully, showing empathy and being alert to those around us, while also not neglecting our own mental well-being Comments:    The government announced this week that it is setting up a task force to monitor efforts to prevent student suicides in Hong Kong. | Suicides
Though the number of suicides worldwide has fallen over the past decade, from around 1 million a year to 840,000, youth suicides are on the rise. | suicides
This is mirrored in Hong Kong, where, while the overall suicide rate has dropped (from 18.8 per 100,000 people in 2003 to an estimated 12.6 per 100,000 people in 2016), the rate for those aged 15 to 24 has increased from 7.1 per 100,000 people in 2005 to an estimated 8.9 per 100,000 people in 2016. | suicide
Education reform is vital to enhance the well-being of our children, but that alone won’t help lower the suicide rate. | suicide
The government has begun to implement the recommendations contained in a report submitted last November by the Committee on the Prevention of Student Suicides. | Student
The Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention is also keeping busy. | Suicide
According to research and the latest report of the Child Fatality Review Panel, a majority of students who died by suicide had expressed suicidal thoughts. | students
It has also launched a WeCare project to provide information to the public on the risk factors associated with youth suicide. | suicide
When a student dies by suicide, it is not only the family that is affected, but also teachers and other students at school; more than one individual life is on the line. | student
We are confident that student suicides can be reduced if preventive measures are comprehensive and integrated. | student
Suicide prevention is not merely the responsibility of schools and parents, or the government and media, but everyone in society. | Suicide
Paul Yip is director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong | Suicide
We think you'd also like
With long study hours and heavy workloads, it is easy to blame the education system for a recent spate of student suicides. | student
Hong Kong has been shocked by a recent series of student suicides - and this isn't the first time. | student
In February this year, five secondary school students took their lives in the course of just 17 days. | students
Two others were rescued from attempted suicides. | suicides
Compared to other Asian countries such as South Korea and Japan, Hong Kong's suicide rate isn't unusually high. | suicide
But the alarming frequency of students committing suicide since 2015 has prompted authorities to look at the struggles young people are facing. | students
In an investigative report published by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides in November 2016, at least 24 percent of 38 cases of primary and secondary school student suicides showed "considerable stress related to learning." | Student
Pressure to succeed Students in Hong Kong study an average of 62 hours per week | Students
In a highly competitive learning environment, many students in Hong Kong spend most of their time studying. | students
In a survey conducted by the Hong Kong Research Association in 2014, students in Hong Kong spend an average of 62 hours per week on studying. | students
According to a 2012 report published by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), 85 percent of high school students received shadow education in Hong Kong. | students
Extracurricular parenting  Long study hours are not the only responsibilities students are expected to fulfill outside of school. | students
There is also an endless list of extracurricular activities, which are supposedly voluntary and leisure activities that students participate in out of own interest. | students
Students are expected to participate in extracurricular activities   | Students
Some students in these surveys had to attend 10 or more of these activities every week. " | students
The government's investigative report also found that "lack of family support and communications problems with parents contribute to youth suicide. | suicide
" Ng's organization, which provides counseling services to people with suicidal tendencies, said they are concerned with the recent youth suicide problem and hope to reach out to at-risk youth by extending the service hours of online chat rooms. | suicide
Students in Hong Kong are facing extreme pressure from schools and parents and it raises the question if youth have the awareness necessary to cope with the ensuring mental health issues. | Students
"Raising community awareness and breaking down taboos is important to make progress in preventing suicides." | suicides
According to Ng, the most effective way to prevent youth suicide is to foster self-awareness. " | suicide
Students should learn to accept their limitation and appreciate themselves," said Ng. | Students
As part of an effort to prevent student suicides, Cheung from Love | student
For the past two months, students and teachers in Hong Kong have been holding demonstrations against Beijing's increasing control of the city's educational intuitions and academic freedom. | students
Deutsche Welle |

Privacy Policy |

Legal notice |

Contact

| Mobile version

 Suicides in Hong Kong Paul Yip says preventing the tragedy of a suicide isn’t a job only for the experts. | suicide
Providing care at a critical moment saves lives Comments:    Sunday is World Suicide Prevention Day. | Suicide
Our centre, the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, launched a one-minute-video competition to mark the day, with the support of the Community Partner Foundation. | Suicide
For people contemplating suicide, the most critical period is during their last minute of life: if someone could intervene at that point, there is a chance of stopping that person. | suicide
Since his miraculous survival, Hines has been championing suicide prevention activities worldwide. | suicide
Suicide prevention is not just something experts can do; everyone can help. | Suicide
Suicide is still a major public health concern. | Suicide
There are about 800,000 suicides every year worldwide. | suicides
In Hong Kong, we estimate that 12.6 per 100,000 people died of suicide last year, based on the latest figures provided by the Coroner's Court. | suicide
To enable a meaningful comparison of suicide rates among different countries and regions, the figures are standardised and adjusted for the age structure. | suicide
After such adjustments, our age-standardised suicide rate is estimated to be 8 per 100,000 people, The global rate is 10.7 per 100,000. | suicide
Since 2003, Hong Kong’s rate has been on a downward trend, from 18.6 per 100,000 in 2003 to 12.6 per 100,000 last year, notwithstanding the spate of student suicides lately. | student
The incidence of student suicide over the past two years attracted widespread attention. | student
There were 69 suicide cases involving young people aged 24 or below in 2016 and the suicide rate of young people aged 15-24 was about 8.3 per 100,000 in 2016. | suicide
Suicide cases of young people aged 15 or below are rare but have increased slightly, from 0.2 per 100,000 in 2015 to 0.5 per 100,000 in 2016. | Suicide
To compare by gender, the suicide rates for boys and girls aged 15 or below have shown a slight increase in 2016, compared to 2015. | suicide
Since the completion of a report on preventing student suicides, the government, many non-governmental organisations and schools have adopted a proactive approach to dealing with the challenge. | student
More resources have been spent to equip teachers to detect students who need help, to create more space for students and teachers to build up the relationship, to improve the referral system, involving hospitals, social workers and teachers, for students in need. | students
Students as young as 10 have died from suicide in recent years, and several studies indicate that emotional distress is common among young people. | Students
We appeal to everyone to pay continuing attention to the situation of youth suicide by taking the initiative to care and understand young people’s feelings, and urge parents and teachers to educate and help young people learn how to resolve problems and handle stress in daily life. | suicide
Sometimes, some young people, especially those with low self-esteem and low social support, feel that suicide is an acceptable method of dealing with problems. | suicide
Furthermore, the suicide rates of other age groups remained higher than that of young people, especially among older adults. | suicide
We encourage individuals contemplating suicide to give themselves another minute to seek professional assistance, to walk out of the darkness towards the light. | suicide
One suicide is one too many and we must all work together to prevent the tragedies occurring. | suicide
Together, we can prevent suicides. | suicides
Paul Yip is director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong | Suicide
Where to get help: ●24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: | Suicide
Some 31 per cent of primary school pupils and 40 per cent of secondary school students polled were found to be ‘vulnerable’ Comments:    One-third of primary school students and 40 per cent of Form | students
One students are at risk of committing suicide from emotional distress brought on by changes in study environments and social circles, a report has shown. | students
The calls came as the Hong Kong Jockey Club joined hands with community organisation Caritas and volunteer agency Samaritan Befrienders to roll out three suicide prevention programmes, expected to benefit 8,000 students at 80 schools over the next three years, with 500 sessions of counselling for needy students and parents.   | suicide
A total of 913 students were polled, of whom 449 were Primary Five and Six students from two schools, and 464 were Form | students
One students from four schools. | students
Students were asked to answer 30 questions about the degree of suicidal thinking, negative thinking, depression and anxiety, and family distress they felt. | Students
The questions also covered how students felt about their future, whether they perceived themselves to be a burden to others or if they disconnected from their surroundings. | students
Some 31 per cent of primary school kids and 40 per cent of secondary school students were found to be “vulnerable cases | students
Of the 187 vulnerable Form One students, nearly 49 per cent had suicidal thoughts while an alarming 86 per cent also felt disliked by others. | students
The university’s associate professor, Sylvia Kwok Lai Yuk-ching, said students from a single-parent family also had a higher risk of suicide as they tend to be more pessimistic. | students
The findings showed that changes in family status or social environment for students led to them becoming more emotionally distressed,” Kwok said. | students
Where to get help ● 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 ● 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 Society for the Promotion of ● Hospice Care: +852 2868 1211 | Suicide
In 2015, there were a reported 27 suicides among 10- to 19-year-olds in Singapore, double that of the previous year and the highest for more than a decade, according to the Samaritans of Singapore. | suicides
Hong Kong’s student suicide rate is also cause for concern. | student
A report commissioned by the government, made public early this year, revealed that 71 students took their lives between 2013 and 2016. | students
As a teacher, I hardly push my students that way. | students
I have one eight-year-old student taking multiple tuition classes from multiple tutors per subject, amounting to 11 tuition sessions a week. | student
High student-to-teacher ratios are a big problem in Singaporean schools, Tan says, but pressure also stems from the practice of streaming – with pupils of the same year being segregated into different classes based on results and assessments in several key gateways. | student
However, segregation of “bright and slow” students still happens in Hong Kong, in the form of school banding. | students
Students undergo two major exams before even leaving primary school. | Students
I’m seeing students, especially from China, struggle because they’re used to memorising answers. | students
Sisson advocates a democratic, student-centred pedagogy, a teaching ethos by which students play a significant role in defining course policies, materials covered, and other aspects of schooling. | student
Chan writes: “The popular view is that the stresses of learning and need to excel academically leave the Chinese student with little choice but to resort to rote learning of the essentials to pass the examinations ... | student
Such learning modes are believed to dominate classroom behaviour for Chinese students in Hong Kong, China and Southeast Asia. | students
Finnish students have little or no homework, and there is no private tuition culture in the country. | students
Currently, a student’s Primary School Leaving Examination aggregate is the sum of T-scores from all four subjects taken. | student
Ngerng concludes that the change “still puts excessive focus on academic results”, and that students will actually find it harder to obtain higher scores. | students
In 2015, the city state took first place in the Pisa (Programme for International Student Assessment) rankings – maths, reading and science tests for 15-year-olds in 72 countries and regions. | Student
In 2015, there were a reported 27 suicides among 10- to 19-year-olds in Singapore, double that of the previous year. | suicides
Hong Kong’s student suicide rate is also cause for concern. | student
A report commissioned by the government, made public early this year, revealed that 71 students took their lives between 2013 and 2016. | students
As a teacher, I hardly push my students that way. | students
I have one 8-year-old student taking multiple tuition classes from multiple tutors per subject, amounting to 11 tuition sessions a week. | student
High student-to-teacher ratios are a big problem in Singaporean schools, Tan says, but pressure also stems from the practice of streaming – with pupils of the same year being segregated into different classes based on results and assessments in several key gateways. | student
However, segregation of “bright and slow” students still happens in Hong Kong, in the form of school banding. | students
Students undergo two major exams before even leaving primary school. | Students
I’m seeing students, especially from China, struggle because they’re used to memorising answers. | students
Sisson advocates a democratic, student-centred pedagogy, a teaching ethos by which students play a significant role in defining course policies, materials covered, and other aspects of schooling. | student
Chan writes: “The popular view is that the stresses of learning and need to excel academically leave the Chinese student with little choice but to resort to rote learning of the essentials to pass the examinations ... | student
Such learning modes are believed to dominate classroom behaviour for Chinese students in Hong Kong, China and Southeast Asia. | students
Finnish students have little or no homework, and there is no private tuition culture in the country. | students
Currently, a student’s Primary  School Leaving Examination aggregate is the sum of T-scores from all four subjects taken. | student
Ngerng concludes that the change “still puts excessive focus on academic results”, and that students will actually find it harder to obtain higher scores. | students
But University of Hong Kong professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, who last year was appointed head of the Education Bureau’s committee on student suicide prevention as the number of cases spiked in the city, expressed scepticism over the Baptist study. | student
Statistics from the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, where Yip serves as director, reveal 69 young people aged under 24 took their lives last year – four more than in 2015. | Suicide
Wong points to the rising numbers of youth suicides as an example of officials’ inadequate response, slamming them for failing to pinpoint causes. | suicides
We think you'd also like
 Hong Kong schools Concern group says leaving cases to schools to investigate is a ‘conflict of interest’ Comments:    A concern group on youth suicide prevention in Hong Kong urged the government on Saturday to set up an independent body to investigate complaints of bullying, criticising authorities for their passive stance. | suicide
The Citizens’ Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide, formed by several groups of parents, teachers and social workers, said a recent alleged bullying incident showed that schools could not resolve such matters themselves. | Suicide
The alliance’s calls came amid a separate campaign on the same day by medical students from the University of Hong Kong to raise awareness of suicide risks among the city’s youth. | students
Findings from the Programme for International Student Assessment (Pisa), released this year, found that Hong Kong pupils reported being threatened and physically bullied at school more than the average rate for all 52 countries and cities surveyed. | Student
Some 15 per cent of students in Hong Kong reported getting verbal threats from other pupils, according to the report. | students
Citizens’ Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide said bullying often went undetected in schools and that reported cases were “only the tip of the iceberg | Suicide
When any pupil needs help, he or she can go to this group so the problem can be nipped in the bud before it progresses to something more serious like an attempted suicide. | suicide
We refer to the article by Philip Yeung (“Unruly students in Hong Kong are the product of a failed education system devoid of rich reading”, January 25). | students
Yeung proposes that “rich reading” may mend misguided angry protesters and avert student suicides, byproducts of an absent moral compass. | student
Asserting that student suicides could be prevented by “escapist reading”, Yeung ignores deeper psychological, societal, and cultural elements. | student
It is extremely insensitive of him to use the recent surge in student suicides to advance his premise of promoting “rich reading”, which he not once defines. | student
We agree with him on the dangers of rote learning, in so far as dysfunctionalities of a system “consumed by academic performance” is concerned, evidenced by how societies with low suicide rates are said to have a status system honouring intrinsic values over achievement. | suicide
However, Yeung appears to totally disregard formidable underlying mental illnesses, and his contentedness in making Hong Kong’s flawed education system a scapegoat for student suicides is clearly unacceptable. | student
We think you'd also like
 Comments:    Two studies have shown that public concerns about depression and suicides among students at local schools are justified (“Half of 3,441 Hong Kong students polled show signs of depression”, September 27). | suicides
One of the studies surveyed 3,441 secondary school pupils and tertiary students in Hong Kong, and found half of them showed signs of depression. | students
These surveys highlight the fact that students suffer from depression because of this prevalent issue of stress. | students
If the teacher always hands out a lot of assignments, students will have to do a substantial amount of homework in the evenings and at weekends. | students
Parents, teachers and students need to look at the main reasons behind so many youngsters suffering psychological problems, and think about the best way to deal with these issues so that young people can be happier in their school lives. | students
This month, at least five students in Hong Kong took their own lives. | students
It's the latest in a rash of suicides by students in Hong Kong.  | suicides
Thirty-five students took their own lives in 2016; one was just 11 years old. | students
Between 2010 and 2014, Hong Kong saw an average of 23 student suicides a year, according to the University of Hong Kong’s Center for Suicide Research and Prevention. | student
The government's Territory-wide System Assessment system tests students regularly starting in third grade. | students
Students are forced to compete for limited spots in the country's university system. | Students
Cheung Siu-chung, a secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union, told Quartz that the suicides are “the accumulative effect of the education system. | suicides
Under this education system, students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he said. | students
How can you expect students to not feel pressure? | students
Children are now starting university earlier, thanks to a 2012 shift in the education system that sends students to college a year earlier. | students
“Students are entering university at a younger age. | Students
Ten of the 22 students who committed suicide since the start of the current academic year were in university. | students
It announced new measures to combat the problem, including improved student counseling in schools, more seminars to alert teachers and parents to warning signs and a committee to research long-term fixes. | student
But most secondary schools have more than 1,000 students, so their ability to interact one-on-one with children is limited.
 | students
Share Topic Suicides in Hong Kong | Suicides
With Generation Z suicides on the rise, social enterprise | suicides
Last month, the Hong Kong Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention estimated that the suicide rate for people aged between 15 and 24 was 8.9 per 100,000 in 2016. | Suicide
Suicides among Hong Kong children accounted for quarter of unnatural deaths in 2012 and 2013 | Suicides
Among One Ten’s advocates is student Justin Wei, 19, who says he was never good at sports or interested in fit­ness, instead focusing on his studies. | student
Student Charlotte Chan, 18, says, “One Ten enables me to combine my health and wellness with community service through Time Auction,” referring to a colla­boration with the charity that encourages volunteers. | Student
Suicides in Hong Kong Report by paediatric groups points to pressure to perform well at school as major issue, pushing some parents to the brink of emotional breakdown Comments:    Children in Hong Kong have suffered a worrying decline in their mental health over the past decade and parents are being pushed to breaking point as a result, a new report suggests. | Suicides
According to the survey that polled 1,300 parents of kindergarten and primary students between May and June, almost two-thirds of parents cited pressure to perform well academically as the most common source of stress for children. | students
More young Hongkongers seek treatment for mental health problems, figures show The report also found that the annual number of youth suicides in the city, which has fluctuated over the last two decades, tended to increase shortly after any temporary government measures to tackle the problem were stopped. | suicides
The average annual number of student suicides has been about 23 since 2010, according to figures from the University of Hong Kong’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. | student
The Hong Kong Paediatric Society and the Hong Kong Paediatric Foundation said the government has not been doing enough to help people deal with pressure, as evidenced by the high suicide rate, the Hong Kong Economic Journal reports. | suicide
Foundation chairman Chan Chok-wan, criticized the government for lacking consistent measures to push down the suicide rate. | suicide
For primary school students, it was 5.8, with the main reason being worries about school performance. | students
If you are feeling stressed or are in need of support, you can contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000 or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. | Suicide
Chan Yu-ling, a fourth grade primary school student in Hong Kong, gave a powerful testimony (video) last month when the city’s legislature convened a special session to address the rising number of student suicides, which has called attention to the cutthroat local school system. | student
Since the 2015 school year began, Hong Kong students have been taking their lives with alarming frequency. | students
Thirty-five students committed suicide in 2016. | students
This month alone, three students leaped to their deaths in a little over a week’s time, two of the cases within 24 hours of each other. | students
Together, five students have committed suicide this month. | students
The toll of academic stress on students’ mental health is a common story throughout Asia, where families place high value on grades, education systems are often centered around exams, and in some countries test scores alone can determine whether students are admitted to university. | students
In South Korea, the leading cause of death for those between 15 and 24 is suicide. | suicide
Last year, Singapore’s teenage suicide rate reached a 15-year high. | suicide
In India, a village known as the country’s test prep capital has seen dozens of suicides in recent years. | suicides
In Hong Kong, the spate of suicides has led the government to establish a Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides last year. | suicides
A local concern group of psychologists last year urged students to sign a “no-suicide contract” proposed by the government, which asked students to “promise not to harm myself or commit suicide. | students
Cheung Siu-chung, a secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union, said that the rash of suicides “is the accumulative effect of the education system. | suicides
Under this education system, students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he says. | students
How can you expect students to not feel pressure? | students
Hong Kong’s emphasis on testing starts from an early age for students in the local school system. | students
Starting in the third grade of primary school, students take the first TSA, which tests them on subjects of math, English, and Chinese. | students
In post-secondary school, students take the Diploma of Secondary Education Examination to compete for a limited number of spots at eight Hong Kong universities. | students
The authority just changed the name,” says Hilda Cheung, the mother of a third grade student and organizer of a local parent focus group. | student
In it, he shared an email from a secondary school pupil who talked about how Hong Kong students were “force fed” education. | students
Everyone, including the government, parents, teachers, and even all of society, has put great value on scores in the education system,” the student wrote. | student
A 15-year-old secondary school student has taken his own life on Sunday morning. | student
He was the third to die in four attempted suicides by Hong Kong students within eight days. | suicides
HK01 reported that his suicide may be related to worries over academic grades, as his secondary school was about to announce results. | suicide
Last Wednesday morning, a 12-year-old student attempted to take her own life at Lower Wong Tai Sin Estate, also reportedly due to academic pressure. | student
The latest incidents follow two student deaths from suicide immediately after the end of the Chinese New Year holidays. | student
35 cases of student suicide were reported last year. | student
If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. | Suicide
Suicides in Hong Kong Government considers recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after spate of student suicides last year Comments:    A schoolboy has died after falling from the rooftop of an apartment building in Ma | Suicides
A police spokeswoman said initial investigations had found “no suspicious circumstances”, adding they had yet to find any suicide note. | suicide
Youth suicide: Relationship problems involved in seven out of 10 deaths in Hong Kong | suicide
The girl left a suicide note before she fell, prompting further concerns from mental health campaigners over the academic intensity of the schooling system. | suicide
The Education Bureau is considering recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after a spate of student suicides last year. | Student
They include looking at ways for schools to provide better mental health support to students, as well as suggesting they work harder to promote students’ non-academic achievements. | students
There have been more than 70 student suicides since 2013. | student
When the government-commissioned report was discussed in the Legislative Council last month, it was claimed there was no link between the government’s education system and the number of student suicides, despite some students comparing schools to prisons. | student
Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, a University of Hong Kong academic who chairs the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, said a series of factors were usually involved in each case, and urged society to provide support and help by taking into account the role of different stakeholders. | Student
“Schools should also be extra careful in detecting any abnormal behaviour among students. | students
We think you'd also like
A 15-year-old secondary student plunged to his death on Sunday in Ma | student
Police said the victim might have committed suicide due to pressure from schoolwork. | suicide
The incident was the latest in a string of deaths by young students. | students
Paul Yip from the University of Hong Kong Center for Suicide Research and Prevention said the incidents could be related to pressure from studies. | Suicide
Hsu Siu-man, supervisor of the Youth Wellness Centers of the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups, said students could be copying suicides from previous cases. | students
Here is the 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline of The Samaritans: +852 2896 0000 (or email [email protected]). | suicide
- Contact us at [email protected] EL/AC/RA 
 Student union defends free speech as Education University tries to find pair caught on camera sending ‘congratulations’ to grieving undersecretary Comments:    Hong Kong’s leader headed a chorus of condemnation and outrage on Friday over an “extremely callous” and “cold blooded” message displayed on the Education University campus, taunting a top education official over the suicide of her eldest son. | Student
The university’s student union, which took down the poster as it was responsible for managing the wall at the Tai Po campus, said it did not support the message, but stopped short of condemning it. | student
The school is trying to track down the two responsible, but it is not clear if they are students or outsiders, as the wall can be accessed by the public. | students
The university’s student union took a more muted stance. | student
If any student is punished for making any ethically controversial remarks, we believe that students will become more afraid of expressing their own opinions ... and even indirectly lead to ‘white terror’ on campus. | student
Civic Passion lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai took a shot at Choi on his Facebook page while commenting on recent suicides at the start of the academic new year. | suicides
The university’s student union issued a statement saying that it was not responsible for the signs, and that it had sent representatives to take them down. | student
We have still not been able to confirm if the involved party is a student of the university. | student
In any case, it is clear that if a student is punished by school authorities as a result of a morally controversial statement, it will lead students in the future to be scared of expressing their views, self-censoring, and creating white terror on campus,” said the statement. | student
The union said that the university should respect the autonomy of the student union in managing the Democracy Wall. | student
If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. | Suicide
Suicides in Hong Kong | Suicides
Equally important, our youth must be encouraged to open up about their feelings and learn to handle adversity Comments:    There has been a startling number of suicides among young people in Hong Kong in the past few weeks. | suicides
From my discussions, it’s clear some of our students are struggling with issues and need a way forward. | students
While the actual suicide rate among those aged between 15 and 24 in Hong Kong has increased only slightly over the past five years, the number of teens who report being depressed is of concern. | suicide
A citywide survey found that nearly half of secondary school students showed signs of depression. | students
From our pilot study of incoming students at Chinese University, nearly a third reported having depressive symptoms in the past five years and 7 per cent had been suicidal, but very few have ever been screened or counselled for mental health concerns. | students
Why are kids in Hong Kong reporting high levels of depression, attempted suicide, cutting and other behaviour? | suicide
When speaking to students, they uniformly agreed that academic pressure is one of the top reasons for stress. | students
Students are often required to go from one tutorial or activity to another, with a rare break for relaxation. | Students
One student disclosed she had been cutting herself for a year, but was afraid to tell her parents. | student
Quite a few of the students I spoke to knew someone who was often on social media or video game sites. | students
I’ve seen students fall apart once they joined university or started a job because they didn’t know how to handle having poor grades, conflict or face other challenges.   | students
Most of the students in Hong Kong whom I spoke to told me that they had experienced stress. | students
More focus should be given on asking young people about self-worth, suicide, and depression on routine exams, as well as providing confidential counselling services in school settings. | suicide
Students told me they are concerned about their peers being depressed, but are unsure of what to do. | Students
The Diplomat Despite rising numbers of suicides, Hong Kong official insist the education system is not to blame. | suicides
In the course of just 17 days in February this year, Hong Kong has seen five students take their own lives. | students
Just a month earlier, the city’s legislature had convened a special session to address the rising number of student suicides. | student
In the classroom, I was not allowed to move, drink water, eat, go to the toilet, or talk,” said Chan Yu-ling, a fourth-grade primary school student, at the Education Bureau’s Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides.  | student
Between 2010 and 2014, Hong Kong saw an average of 23 student suicides a year, according to the University of Hong Kong’s Center for Suicide Research and Prevention. | student
In 2016 alone, 35 students took their own lives. | students
The spate of suicides has led the government to establish a Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which called for a review of the education system in November of last year. | suicides
Culturally speaking, academic success is highly respected, not only for the individual student, but also their families. | student
This has resulted in education systems centered on exams, and in many countries test scores alone can determine whether students are admitted to university. | students
At the same session held by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union Cheung Siu-chung said that the suicides are “the accumulative effect of the education system… students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he said. | Student
How can you expect students to not feel pressure? | students
In spite of these testimonials, the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides ruled that the education system was not a direct cause of the suicides. | Student
On February 19, 2017, several politicians and activists from the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention demanded the government set up a high-level interdepartmental platform to look into the problem of student suicides. | Student
Calling for Ng to withdraw his statement and to step down, they directly attributed the suicides to the government’s city-wide BCA, which they said puts undue pressure on students as young as eight years old. | suicides
Suicides in Hong Kong Victor Fung Keung says with the majority of local students reporting emotional problems, the new administration could use some of the extra HK$5 billion to hire clinical psychologists and boost counselling services Comments:    Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor is missing a key area as she doles out an extra HK$5 billion a year in education spending. | Suicides
The main beneficiaries will be students of self-financed degree programmes in private universities, as each would receive a HK$30,000 subsidy, while local students attending universities on the mainland would get a ­HK$5,000 subsidy. | students
A recent survey revealed nearly 70 per cent of young students in Hong Kong are emotionally disturbed. | students
Unfortunately, in the current situation, 20 schools (each with 700 to 800 students) share one clinical psychologist. | students
Clinical psychologists can counsel students about emotional problems before they escalate and the youngsters end up hurting themselves or even committing suicide. | students
Educators say they would like to see more support for depressed students. | students
The study, released last week, polled 3,000 students aged 10 to 16 and was led by Dennis Wong Sing-wing, associate dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences at City University. | students
According to the survey, carried out from April to June last year as part of a five-year study commissioned by the government’s Quality Education Fund, around 64 per cent of students felt worried or frustrated. | students
Psychologists say these feelings described by students are classic symptoms of depression. | students
While they can educate students about cybersecurity and the need to uphold decent values, more must be done to help students tackle their mental health issues. | students
Paul Yip says those who criticised the Education Bureau’s Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides report were “misinterpreting” | Student
” rather than recognising the “complexity of the suicide situation | suicide
All serious research on suicide recognises that there are usually multiple factors; nobody is suggesting otherwise. | suicide
True, many of those who testified in the Legislative Council earlier this month focused on the intense pressure that students experience in Hong Kong schools, but there was no misinterpretation or misunderstanding. | students
They were responding to a report that goes to great pains to avoid saying that academic pressure is an important factor in student suicide. | student
It claims that “there is no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system”. | student
But there are plenty of links, and a mountain of evidence linking school and test pressure to student suicide. | student
The Social Welfare Department’s child mortality reviews from 2006 to 2011 showed schoolwork pressures were linked to between 29 per cent and 42 per cent of youth suicides. | suicides
According to the report of the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, the bureau’s own data showed 24 per cent of primary and secondary school students who committed suicide were known to be worried about their academic performance, but this is somehow ignored in the report’s conclusion. | Student
Numerous surveys show the biggest sources of pressure for Hong Kong students are tests and homework. | students
Odilon Couzin, Citizens’ Alliance to Prevent Youth Suicide | Suicide
When asked what bothered them most, the top problems students identified were stress stemming from the Diploma of Secondary Education exams, other academic issues and concerns about their future. | students
Some 3.4 per cent had thought of committing suicide a few times in the week prior to questioning, and 1.4 per cent had experienced detailed thoughts a few times every day about suicide, or had even attempted it. | suicide
Chris, a student who declined to give his real name, said he was suffering from depression, and had started experiencing symptoms in 2013 when he was in Form Two. | student
He was the fifth to die in six attempted suicides by Hong Kong students within 17 days. | suicides
His suicide may be linked to a scolding by his parents for spending too much time on computer games the night before, local media reported. | suicide
The school said in a statement that its teachers and students were devastated by the news. | students
Another suicide A separate student suicide took place last Friday. | suicide
The student was an enthusiast in rooftopping, a practice of taking photographs at the top of skyscrapers.  | student
Last Monday, a 15-year-old student ended his life in Ma | student
Two student deaths from suicide were reported immediately after the end of the Lunar New Year holidays. | student
A 12-year-old student attempted suicide earlier this month, also reportedly due to academic pressure. | student
Last year, 35 cases of student suicide were reported. | student
If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. | Suicide
These are two qualities that Chan will look for when she judges the scientist and mathematician category of the South China Morning Post Student of the Year Awards. | Student
The 37th edition of the awards, which will be held on March 17 at Kowloon Shangri-la Hotel, honours secondary school students for outstanding achievements in academic subjects, sports, the arts, personal growth and contributions to the community. | students
One of the nine categories is the grand prize for Student of the Year. | Student
In judging the awards, she would look for a student who has “passion for the sciences and has the mission to spread this. | student
While there were more after-school science activities for students now, there were also more distractions for students, such as the use of smartphones, she said. | students
She highlighted a current exhibition on graphene – a planar form of carbon that is super lightweight, highly conductive and ultra-strong – featuring research from Polytechnic University and an upcoming exhibition featuring a solar car developed by students from the Vocational Training Council. | students
On Shan Country Park Comments:    A woman died after falling from a steep slope dubbed “suicide cliff” in a Hong Kong country park on Wednesday, making it the second fatal hiking accident in the city within four days. | suicide
According to hiking experts, the rocky section of trail on Kowloon Peak dubbed “suicide cliff” is increasingly popular with hikers, who underestimate its risks. | suicide
We think you'd also like
A file image of secondary students attending an English class in Hong Kong. | students
Academic pressure is one factor blamed for suicides among young people in the city. | suicides
Seventeen students — aged from 13-25 — jumped to their deaths in Hong Kong during the first four months of this year, almost half of the total 38 suicide cases in 2016. | students
The rising number of suicides by young people has shaken Hong Kong society. | suicides
Form four student Siu Chui told a seminar organized by a Christian group in April that she thought suicide was a cowardly act until she saw a boy jumping off a building a few months earlier. | student
From there she began to reflect why there has been an increase in student suicide numbers. " | student
"I believe that students commit suicide mainly because the education system in Hong Kong has problems and that too much pressure is imposed on students," Sui said. | students
More than 10 percent of Hong Kong students think of suicide, was one of the findings from a research team from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. | students
From that number, form two students (aged 12-13) are the most at risk with nearly 15 percent of them having suicidal inclinations. | students
More than 5 percent planned to commit suicide and nearly half of those with suicidal inclinations have suicidal behavior. | suicide
In the studies, they tracked more 10,000 secondary school students to better understand their satisfaction with life, suicidal tendencies, academic stress and school supports. | students
Both studies found that the level of satisfaction of secondary school students has been gradually decreasing from forms one to six (12 to 17 years of age). | students
No single factor Lawmaker Shiu Ka Chun agreed that students committing suicide was the result of Hong Kong education system putting too much pressure on them. | students
"Students don't understand why they need to learn. | Students
However, there are principals, parents, and teachers who believe student suicide is not caused by a single factor. | student
"They are the problems that students face often. | students
Many problems are cumulative and a trigger makes students commit suicide," said Ng. | students
"What happens after students go home is difficult for us to control," he said. | students
A Catholic school teacher said she and her colleagues teach students to meditate with the "Psalms" and "Ecclesiastes", and also broadcast religious songs which have touched her students. | students
They also teach students to respect life because it is God's gift. | students
Kung said he would refer to the core values of the Catholic Church and the "Half Full and Half Empty theory" to counsel his students. " | students
A 21-year-old Canadian-Israeli woman on a student exchange program at Chinese University of Hong Kong committed suicide in a student dormitory in Sha Tin on Monday evening. | student
Police found a suicide note in the exchange student’s room and ruled out foul play after an initial investigation. | suicide
The Education Bureau is considering recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after a spate of student suicides last year. | Student
There have been more than 70 student suicides in the city since 2013. | student
If you need help, The Samaritans runs a 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline on +852 2896 0000.

  | suicide
Hong Kong's government is investigating a recent rise in the number of student suicides. | student
Hong Kong's government is investigating a recent rise in the number of student suicides. | student
A man and his mother, who both suffered from mental health issues, were found dead in a Tsuen Wan flat in a suspected suicide pact on Sunday. | suicide
They believed the pair had committed suicide together. | suicide
Son of Hong Kong deputy education minister jumps to his death from 41st-floor flat No suicide note was found. | suicide
Where to get help – 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 – 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 – Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care: +852 2868 | Suicide
A subject not easily broached in most societies, suicide is a particularly difficult topic to discuss openly in Chinese culture, where talking about death in general is traditionally taboo. | suicide
it merits, with government efforts to raise awareness and provide support often criticized for being inadequate, ham-fisted and out of touch, while suicide-prevention NGOs and charities such as the Samaritans are often effective yet underfunded.   | suicide
But a spike in student suicides in Hong Kong over the past 18 months, including a spate of five schoolchildren aged between 13 and 16 taking their own lives from February 5-21 this year, has dragged the issue inescapably into the public eye and heaped pressure on the government, and in particular the Education Bureau, to tackle the problem with something more than token measures.   | student
Despite setting up the ‘Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides’ in March 2016, the government’s response thus far has been underwhelming. | Student
In its final report, submitted in November, the Committee found that “there is no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system. | student
Moreover, while student suicides in Hong Kong have garnered the headlines, they represent only around 2% of the city’s annual suicide statistics (23 aged 10-19 out of a total of 1,022 deaths in 2015), with the most at-risk demographics being the over 70s (roughly 20%), 50-59 (19.5%) and 40-49 (roughly 16%) – suggesting that there is much work to be done in other areas of society, too. | student
Against this backdrop, an Ireland-based suicide awareness and prevention charity is launching its inaugural Hong Kong event on May 6. | suicide
Founded in 2006 to offer free counselling to the suicidal and those who have been bereaved by suicide, Pieta House has been drawing attention to the subject and raising funds through its annual Darkness into Light marches since 2009. | suicide
Hong Kong and Ireland both suffer from high rates of suicide, and it’s a topic that people often avoid talking about | suicide
I think it was the case in Ireland maybe 30 or 35 years ago, when people were wary or ashamed of [talking about suicide], but now with the likes of Darkness into Light, people are much more aware. | suicide
Hong Kong and Ireland both suffer from high rates of suicide, and it’s a topic that people often avoid talking about” The march, which is expected to attract up to 1,000 people, begins at 5am at Sun Yat-sen Memorial Park, in the Sai Ying Pun area of Hong Kong Island, on May 6, with participants walking a 5km loop that brings them back to the starting point as the sun rises around 6am – timings that symbolize the event’s goal of bringing the subject out of the shadows and into the light. | suicide
As well as raising money for Pieta House and local suicide-prevention NGO | suicide
, Kelly says he hopes the event can help lessen the stigma associated with suicide and encourage people to talk about it and seek help. | suicide
The aim is to get people aware of the crisis of suicide, and to alert people to the preventative measures and services that are available,” he adds.   | suicide
Whether the event can have a meaningful effect on suicide prevention in Hong Kong – or resonate with local as opposed to expat residents – remains to be seen, but attempting to break the taboo while demonstrating the universal nature of the issue is certainly a step in the right direction. | suicide
No injuries discovered on body of Form Six student, who had gone missing after leaving her Mid-Levels home on Sunday Comments:    The citywide search for a teenage girl who went missing after leaving her Mid-Levels home ended on Monday afternoon with the discovery of her body in Victoria Harbour. | student
Form Six student Chin Yu-ying, 17, was found dead in the waters off Wan Hoi Street in Hung Hom hours after her family reported her disappearance to police. | student
If you are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000 or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. | Suicide
But critics say report fails to propose extra resources to hire more teachers, social workers and psychologists to better identify and help students at risk Comments:    Advisers on student suicide prevention have ruled out the city’s education system as a direct cause of the phenomenon, even though they are calling for a review of the system to reduce students’ burden and recognise non-academic achievements. | students
But the final report prepared by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was submitted to the Education Bureau on Monday, stopped short of calling for more teachers, social workers and psychologists to better identify and help students with problems, prompting educators and social workers to call for extra resources to tackle the problem. | Student
Students at breaking point: Hong Kong announces emergency measures after 22 suicides since the start of the academic year | Students
Our focus is not on adding extra manpower, but how to do better with our current resources,” said Michelle Wong Yau Wai-ching, deputy secretary for education and vice-chairwoman of the committee formed in late March after more than 20 students killed themselves in the first half of the last school year . | students
The report,which analysed 71 student suicide cases between the 2013-14 and 2015-16 school years, concluded that student suicides were probably the result of mental health problems, negative attitudes and stress from both family and studies. | student
The suggestion to review the education system, which is known to pressure students with homework and tests, was briefly mentioned at the end of the report. | students
Education minister Eddie Ng Hak-kim emphasised on Monday that the report did not find a direct causal relationship between suicide cases and the education system. | suicide
Depression hits half of Hong Kong secondary pupils and a quarter have considered suicide, study finds But committee chairman Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai said only 20 per cent of those who had committed suicide were known to suffer from mental problems, in contrast to more than 90 per cent of overseas cases. | suicide
Many students with mental health problems weren’t actually identified in a timely manner,” he said, adding that teachers and students should be trained to identify students at risk. | students
Yet, the report does not recommend increasing manpower to relieve understaffed schools, with some counselling professionals having to take care of 800 students on their own. | students
Fung Pik-yee, vice-president of the Professional Teachers’ Union and a retired headmistress, said teachers did not have time to observe and identify students with poor mental health as they often had to handle teaching and administrative work. | students
Social welfare lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun said it was “impossible” without more resources for integrated family service centres to find “hidden parents” of students who were at risk as they were already overburdened with cases like family violence. | students
We think you'd also like
'Gatekeeper' call to prevent student suicides Mental health education should be strengthened to make every teacher, student and parent "gatekeeper" in preventing student suicides, said a committee set up after a spate of students taking their own lives. | student
The Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides yesterday submitted its final report to Secretary for Education Eddie Ng Hak-kim after six months of analyzing 71 student suicides in the past three academic years.   | Student
It indicates that students with mental health problems were not identified early enough, said Paul Yip Siu-fai, committee chairman and director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong. | students
Yip said Hong Kong "has a lot of problems" to deal with when it comes to the education system, for example, the exam-oriented culture and the low university admission rate, which put pressure on the students. | students
According to the report by the committee, there is no direct correlation between student suicidal cases and the overall education system per se," Ng said. | student
He said the bureau will study when to put the committee's suggestions into practice and that the government has already taken measures to reduce homework stress for students and simplify the curriculum. | students
The cause of student suicide is for sure complicated but support from school definitely plays an important part. | student
The committee should study the relationship between student suicide and education," Ip said. | student
There were 18 student suicides in the period from January to April this year, compared with four between May and August. | student
Police found blood and signs of a fight in flat belonging to the man and woman Comments:    Police were investigating a suspected murder-suicide on Monday night after a woman was found dead next to her husband, both having fallen from their 28th-floor flat in a luxury apartment block. | suicide
No suicide note was found at the scene. | suicide
Police were treating the case as murder-suicide, and appealed for anyone with information to contact officers on 3661 9245. | suicide
We think you'd also like

Police are investigating a suspected murder-suicide case involving a man and his wife who were found dead after falling from their luxury apartment in Yau Ma Tei in the early hours of Monday, Apple Daily reports. | suicide
Chow is said to have been seeing a university student whom he had met via Instagram. | student
Chow then must have stabbed his wife, threw her off the balcony, and committed suicide afterward. | suicide
Police classified the tragedy as suspected homicide-suicide. | suicide
The chief inspector of police of Yau Tsim District, Lam Chi-yuen, said police are investigating in the direction of homicide-suicide. " | suicide
"No suicide note was found and there was no third person in the apartment." | suicide
There has been a rise in student suicides in the city in recent years. | student
More than 60 youngsters took their lives between September 2015 and April this year, or an average of three students each month. | students
And a vicious circle seems to be happening; more suicides “goad | suicides
” more disgruntled students to take the same path. | students
Parents, and society as a whole, need to do some soul-searching as to what factors are pushing our students off the edge – heavy loads of schoolwork, anxiety over academic records, disputes with family members, relationship problems with boyfriend/girlfriend, etc. | students
A student who grows up in a happy family is unlikely to commit suicide. | student
Parents and other family members are the first and last ones that a student with suicidal issues can count on. | student
This may add up to their feeling of estrangement, which may lead them to consider suicide as an option. | suicide
A lesson from many rueful parents is that some students may try to keep their stress under wraps even when they have long been feeling despondent or even thinking of ending their lives. | students
Spur-of-the-moment suicides are exceptionally rare, as they are against human nature and instinct for survival. | suicides
It may take up to 90 days, with multiple phases, from thinking of suicide to actually committing it. | suicide
Parents must ask themselves: Does suicide really occur without any indication, or is it just that parents fail, or are too busy, to take note of them? | suicide
To students: Why you’ll miss your schooldays like we do 
  | students
Suicides in Hong Kong Paul Yip says case studies reveal that prevention requires efforts from all stakeholders to address every related factor, including family relationships and mental health care Comments:    The Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides presented its investigation report to the government this month. | Student
With the aim of preventing student suicides, it has adopted a public health approach to propose multilayered intervention schemes, to help vulnerable pupils in schools. | student
The committee was set up in response to a spate of suicides among schoolchildren in March and April this year. | suicides
The 21 committee members and 37 members of the five working groups – on school, family, mental health, tertiary students and social media – worked tirelessly over the past six months. | students
We have identified multiple factors that contribute to students taking their lives and nearly all suffered more than one single cause, not to mention the knowledge and service gaps on suicide prevention. | students
The report’s recommendations aim to remove barriers and strengthen the existing systems to tackle student suicides more comprehensively. | student
Specifically, schools need support to free up time and space to care for their students; families and youth require knowledge on mental health needs, ways to seek help and early detection and intervention; gaps in the mental health service system for schools also need to be filled. | students
Some in the community mistakenly believe the report tried to say there is no relationship between suicide and the school system. | suicide
Nevertheless, the family aspect is also of great importance; some 74 per cent of students who committed suicide had suffered from poor family relationships, and in 97 per cent of cases, there was more than a single cause. | students
Hence, if we fail to appreciate the complexity of the causes of suicide, by just singling out the education system, we will miss many opportunities for intervention. | suicide
Suicide is not an issue confined to education; prevention requires effort from all stakeholders in the community. | Suicide
Placing students at the centre of pooled efforts, especially from the government, schools, families and the media, is essential. | students
Yet, the strong desire to make changes in the community and to help our students provided us with hope to rise to the challenge. | students
The report is not a final study of suicide but hopefully a new beginning for the community to be more informed about how we can work more effectively to prevent suicide in schools. | suicide
A monitoring system is needed to ascertain the effectiveness of various measures, while continuous improvements in our school system are indispensable for strengthening suicide prevention efforts. | suicide
We are confident that, with ownership of the problem, leadership and perseverance, we can enhance our capacity to prevent suicide tragedies among our precious youth. | suicide
Let’s hope that with the efforts of different stakeholders in the community, a healthy and caring environment can be cultivated that will help our students live their life to the fullest. | students
To achieve this, we must understand that suicide prevention is everyone’s responsibility. | suicide
Paul Yip is chairman of the committee on preventing student suicide and a director of the centre for suicide research and prevention at the University of Hong Kong | student