
By Heidy Lo DSE. Three letters that strike fear into every Hong Kong student and cause debilitating anxiety. As someone who has experienced the DSE and who now works as a tutor for this year’s cohort, I want to reflect on this destructively stressful examination and its long-term effects. With this year’s exams starting, we need to raise awareness of the tremendous pressure Hong Kong students are under and be mindful of its dangers. Photo: Stand News. Hong Kong’s Diploma of Secondary Education (DSE) – the public examination students take in the final year of secondary school – is among the most high-pressure exams in the world. The DSE has a relatively low coursework element and less flexibility – compared with the International Baccalaureate (IB) and the AS and A2 Level exams in the UK – so the fate of students comes down to the final two weeks of exams rather than the pressure being spread throughout the year. Furthermore, university entry requirements in Hong Kong are almost solely DSE-based, drawing a straight connection between the DSE and future employability that cranks up the pressure on students even further. According to the Labour and Welfare Bureau, the unemployment rate was 2.5 percent in January 2017 for people with a BA degree, while it is more than double that for those without one. For prestigious universities like HKU, the graduate employment rate has been close to 100 per cent for over a decade. With the DSE as the only gateway to these vital qualifications, the pressure is enormous. This can have disastrous consequences. Since 2013, the second year of the DSE, about 71 students have committed suicide. For students, there are immense stress levels and various forms of mental illness. During the last months of secondary school, work piles up, extra lessons and tutor classes take up all free time and expectations from various angles suffocate the students. Fear of missing out without a “superstar tutor” adds further worry. At the same time, tutors like Billy Ng expect students to deal with it all, saying things like: “Young people just have to get over the pressure. That’s life.” One student from this year’s cohort described the pressure they are under as “so overwhelming that I was unable to catch my breath.” A protest raising awareness of student suicides. Photo: Albert Chan. A former DSE student myself, I remember those final exams as the worst time of my life. I became depressed, suffered from high levels of stress and I can now see that my teenage self was unable to handle this stress, combined with all the other emotions of being a young person. Expectations from my family, friends, teachers, classmates and from myself pushed me close to the edge. I became unable to eat, I suffered from chronic insomnia and I closed myself off socially. I am not a social person by nature, but due to the pressure of the DSE I essentially became mute. Though I still interacted with people superficially, I never talked about my feelings and felt I should not do so because there was nothing unique about my experience: everyone was going through the same thing. After finishing the DSE, I thought I had recovered from the ordeal but even now in times of high pressure my body can revert to the intense fight or flight mode created by the DSE and the negative symptoms can reappear. The intense stress of the DSE period has a potentially traumatic effect that can remain with students long after the event. In the long term, changes must be made in universities’ entry requirements and in the DSE system itself to ease the pressure on students. In the meantime, we may have to settle for raising awareness of the pressures involved in this uniquely traumatic exam, and paying careful attention to those going through the process in the next two months. Heidy Lo is a survivor of the 2015 DSE. She is a local student in Hong Kong completing her undergraduate degree in English and working as a tutor of DSE students.   Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Police find suicide notes that describe woman’s devastation from losing her husband in January  Comments:    A woman whose husband killed himself last month was found dead along with her nine-year-old son on Tuesday in what police said was a murder-suicide. Au Wai-man, 45, and her son were found dead from inhaling charcoal fumes in a car on a Sha Tin street. Police said Au was devastated by the death of her husband. Her husband, Hung Ka-kit, 41, who ran a logistic company in Fo Tan, died on January 8 after he hanged himself in his office. Police said he ended his life because his business was failing. “The woman left several will notes to her relatives and friends at home, saying she missed her late husband very much and indicating that she had suicidal tendency to end her life with her [only] son,” a police source said. The Post understands that after her husband’s death, relatives had offered her emotional support and help but she was inconsolable. Au and her son, a Primary Five student at a Kowloon West school, were last seen on Sunday night when they had dinner with relatives.  Au’s mother became worried about her daughter and grandson on Monday when she hadn’t heard from Au. She went to the family’s home in Che Ha Tsuen off Sai Sha Road in Ma On Shan at about 11pm, but no one was inside the village house. Au’s mother found the suicide notes and made an emergency call to 999. Police immediately launched a citywide search for the pair. Soon before 2am on Tuesday, Au and her son were found unconscious on board a seven-seater car stopped in On Yiu Street, Sha Tin. Officers found a pot of charcoal ashes in the vehicle’s rear passenger seat. Chief Inspector Siu Man-hon of Sha Tin police district said the mother and son were certified dead by paramedics at the scene and initial investigation showed the pair died from inhaling excess carbon monoxide. He said initial examination showed the pair had been dead for about 12 hours. A security camera footage indicated Au left her Ma On Shan home with her son in the car at about 1.30am on Monday, according to the source. He said an autopsy would be carried out to determine whether the boy was drugged before the charcoal was set alight. Research shows that the risk of self-harm for those who have lost family members or people close to them through suicide are three times higher than others, according to Vincent Ng Chi-kwan, executive director of non-profit group Suicide Prevention Services. “These people are usually very vulnerable and are dealing with immense grief and complex emotions. Some may be blaming themselves, or they might be angry at their family members for leaving them behind and at the same time missing them dearly,” Ng said. In such cases, seeking professional help is equally as important as family support, he said. “From our experience, many would be hesitant to be completely open to their family members. Some are worried that they would be a burden, while others worry that they are to blame. This is why a professional third-party would be able to help,” Ng, who is also a social worker, said. The Suicide Prevention Services provides individual and family counselling to those survivors of suicide loss. Aside from counselling services, social workers will also arrange for them to join support groups so they can build up a network with those who have had gone through similar experiences. The groups are further divided into those who have been through spousal losses, or the loss of their children. “It will be of much help to them when they know they are not alone, and there are others who have gone through the exact same things as them. They should not feel like they have to hide and keep everything to themselves,” Ng said. People who are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000, or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. A hotline for those who have lost a loved one to suicide can be reached on 2382 2737. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Social work expert says people underestimate the scale of the problem, thinking that abnormal behaviour and sadness are just parts of ageing. Therefore, many elderly do not get help with their feelings Comments:    Long life may be seen as a blessing, but those in what ought to be their golden years could feel otherwise, with elderly men and women in Hong Kong falling victim to depression, and taking their own lives at a much higher rate than their juniors. In 2016, 282 over-65s killed themselves in the city. And while officials and residents are increasingly cognisant of the local problem of student suicides, the issue of elderly suicides is largely unacknowledged. Most times, it takes a suicide attempt for family members to realise that seniors are grappling with emotional issues which require counselling. And social work expert Terry Lum Yat-sang warns that Hongkongers could be missing telltale early signs. “There’s an assumption in society that if older people are acting strangely, it’s probably because of dementia,” said the University of Hong Kong professor, who heads its department of social work. “People will generally associate ageing with negative images such as downheartedness, solitude and hopelessness, all of which would easily normalise the phenomenon of elderly depression.” But he says the signs can be spotted. “There are usually signs of depression before elderly people attempt suicide as they prepare to end their lives. They may write a will, give away some of their belongings or say that their life isn’t worth living any more,” he says. “If they are unattended, then the situation may easily spiral out of control.” While psychological help is available, uptake among the elderly is low because of that common belief, that depression is a normal part of ageing.  The weak appreciation of the size of the problem stands in contrast with the attention which has in recent years been focused on the city’s tragic spate of student suicides. After 71 students between the age of 10 and 30 killed themselves from 2013 to 2016, the Education Bureau set up its Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. According to the data collected by the committee, although the problem persisted, suicides among students in primary and secondary schools had declined over the previous three decades. Lum led a study on attitudes to elderly depression published last month, after researchers interviewed 1,322 residents aged 20 and above, finding that 687 – or 52 per cent – of them estimated that only 10 per cent of older people were depressed. “When seniors exhibit signs of the problem, families don’t see the need to take action or seek help because they don’t see it as a disease and have normalised the condition,” he says. “It’s incorrect to believe that elderly depression comes with old age. In fact it is an abnormal process of ageing and it needs to be addressed.” The survey – conducted by the Jockey Club Joy Age, a three-year project aimed at supporting the mental wellness of the elderly – suggests the public has been approaching elderly depression the wrong way.  “Reminding [depressed seniors] of their blessings is not the best way to handle such patients and by doing so, they are ignoring their feelings, which will make them feel even worse. Not only do they feel isolated and unwanted, they also feel misunderstood and rejected,” Lum says. This is among many factors that contribute to making older people feel vulnerable, heightening the risk of depression and stress, leading to health problems and social disengagement. According to figures from HKU’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, the suicide rate for people over 65 in the city stood at 24.2 per 100,000 people per year in 2016, and with the city’s rapidly ageing population the number of elderly people killing themselves is expected to rise in the coming decades. That suicide rate for the elderly – despite having decreased from a 2003 spike of 40.4 – looms much higher than the rate for any other age group. The rate for the group aged 55 to 64 is second-highest at 13.7, with the groups aged 25-34, 35-44 and 45-44 all hovering around 11. The rate for the 15-24 group is 9.3, and the rate for Hongkongers of all ages is 12.3. So what can be done to help this group clearly at a heightened risk of suicide? Lum says: “Attention needs to be given especially to the changes in elderly people’s conditions and their complaints. The best way to really do so is to spend more time with them, do the activities they enjoy doing, whether it’s hiking or playing mahjong.”  Only visiting older relatives on special occasions like Lunar New Year will not do the trick, he adds, saying: “It’s important we keep regular contact with them. It can help to understand their daily lives and chat with them about their feelings, which will work well in preventing the possibility of depression as well as suicide.” But treatment can be difficult in the community. That is why since October last year Joy Age has partnered with district elderly community centres or integrated home care services in four different Hong Kong districts to open integrated community centres for mental wellness, providing holistic support for older people at risk of depression. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
The shocking picture of mental health in Hong Kong was revealed to a packed audience of students from De Montfort University Leicester (DMU) as part of their #DMUglobal trip. The students from the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences (HLS), who covered a variety of disciplines from mental health and children’s nursing to criminology and psychology, had their eyes opened to the desperate issues affecting Hong Kong with a talk by eminent psychiatrist Dr Sunny Liu.  The trip to the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong was just one of many educational trips HLS students were able to experience during their stay. Dr Liu revealed that Hong Kong has around 1,000 suicides every year and a lot of the mental health problems are due to the stresses of living in the main city. Property prices are at a premium, rent is sky-high in an already cramped area and it creates huge amounts of stress among people worried about being able to afford to live in the area. Dr Liu said it was “terrifying” the number of professionals who cannot afford spacious rooms let alone people on lower wages. He also revealed how psychiatrists see around 40 patients per half day leaving no resource or Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and referrals to mental health nurses to take on the task can take up to 12 months. The Centre was set up 15 years ago in response to the high suicide rates – and it is making a difference.  Dr Liu encouraged the students to remain positive, remain committed and passionate and help make a change for mental health. Harvey Noble, second year Criminology, said: “I did not know quite what to expect but it was excellent. “It was…well…strange. The fact they do not seem to be able to do anything about a mental health crisis, or rather they know how bad the situation is but they cannot seem to change it. “I found it fascinating that they were talking about housing being a factor in suicide rates and a psychiatrist with his own practise cannot even afford to live in Hong Kong and has a house on a different island. It makes you wonder who all the people are that live in Hong Kong.” Irum Bashir, second year Psychology and Criminology, said: “It is such an eye-opening experience. It is amazing to see two different cultures and two different governments tackling the same problems in different ways.” Rishi Sunair, second year Criminal Investigations, said: “This talk really puts stuff into perspective. You really do value the NHS and its service. I won’t take it for granted.”  
                   DMU is a dynamic university, read about what we have been up to in our latest news section.  
                    At DMU there is always something to do or see, check out our events for yourself.  
                    Read about our mission and vision and how these create a supportive and exciting learning environment.  
    De Montfort University 
    The Gateway 
    Leicester 
    LE1 9BH 
    UNITED KINGDOM 
T: +44 (0)116 255 1551 
  
 Suicides in Hong Kong Criticisms that her views were disregarded come as officials seek to engage young people in policymaking Comments:    When Althea Suen Hiu-nam, then president of the University of Hong Kong’s student union, received a phone call from the Education Bureau inviting her to the committee on prevention of student suicides, little did she know the outcome would deviate far from her expectations. From 2013 to last year, 71 pupils and students aged between 10 and 30 killed themselves, prompting the government to set up the ad hoc committee to tackle the issue in March last year. But Suen, 21, was the only youth member in the 21-member committee. She accused pro-establishment forces of dominating the discourse and disregarding her views. “Several times, as I gave my first-person account about flaws in the education system, other committee members dismissed my views as unscientific or not evidence-based,” the final-year social work student claimed. Suen’s criticisms coincided with officials’ renewed efforts to address student suicides and their fresh attempts to give young people more say in policymaking. Secretary for Labour and Welfare Law Chi-kwong was recently tasked by Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor to steer a working group liaising four bureaus to advance the recommendations proposed by the committee in November last year.  It also came as the chief executive pledged in her maiden policy address earlier this month to boost young Hongkongers’ representation in advisory bodies to at least 15 per cent overall. The new Policy Innovation and Co-ordination Unit began recruiting up to 30 young researchers last week. But Suen questioned whether the government was sincere in engaging young people in policymaking. “My main point in the committee was how Hong Kong’s exam-oriented education was creating undue academic pressure and taking a toll on teacher-student relationships as teachers lack sufficient time to take care of students’ mental well-being.” After six months of meetings, the committee issued a 150-page report detailing the complex causes of suicides. It stated there was “no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system” and citing findings obtained from “evidence-based case analysis”. “I was appalled with the findings. My views were almost absent,” Suen said. She criticised the current set-up of government committees as unfriendly to young people who had full-time jobs. The six general meetings she attended, for example, all took place during business hours on weekdays. “It would be easier for senior executives or professionals in the committee to take time off to attend meetings, but young people would have difficulties getting away.” Suen also hoped more of her peers would get orientation on future panels to facilitate communication with their senior counterparts. “I was not given any orientation before joining the committee, so it took a lot of time to understand some education jargon like SENCO [special education needs coordinator] and EP [education psychiatrists] in the meetings.” But she acknowledged the importance of having young voices on advisory bodies and thought her participation had directly put forth students’ views to the government. Paul Yip Siu-fai, director of HKU’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, chaired the committee and said he welcomed Suen’s participation. Yip appreciated that she invited eight other university student leaders to give their views as speakers.  “We accepted her views,” he said. “The summary in the report might not be the same as what an individual member said. The report is representative of the different views of our members.” “Although the report found no direct link [between the education system and suicides], that does not mean there’s no link at all,” he added. “The evidence from our study shows suicides have various and complex causes. For example, a dysfunctional family plays a part.” Joseph Wong Wing-ping, former secretary for the civil service, said officials should be open-minded to young voices or their efforts to engage them would be “futile”. “People will judge whether youth policy is genuine or just a gimmick and political marketing,” he said. “That depends on whether the government is willing to accept views that are different from its stances and select young people from across the political spectrum.” Wong believed that if the new youth committee members were mostly pro-establishment, officials would be accused of paying lip service to the pledge of accepting other views. “The test of the pudding is in its eating,” he added. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Crime in Hong Kong The 21-year-old woman discovered with head wounds and marks on neck when mother returned home had bought 100 pieces of plastic cable tie Comments:    Police investigating the case of a Hong Kong woman found dead from suffocation offered new evidence on Tuesday that she might have committed suicide. Cheung Ming-ha, 21, was discovered in the living room of her Tseung Kwan O flat with head wounds and marks on her neck when her mother, 46, returned to their home soon after 8pm on Monday. Police sources had described the scene as “unusual”. Senior Inspector Lo Man-fai of the Kowloon East regional crime unit said initial investigation suggested Cheung had died from suffocation and officers believed the marks on her neck were caused by a plastic cable tie. “We also found a 1.5cm-long wound in the back of her head,” Lo said, adding that authorities were still waiting for a full autopsy report. “While investigating if this was murder, we cannot rule out other possibilities such as suicide.” However, more evidence emerged on Tuesday evening to suggest that Cheung might have tried to kill herself. A police source said Cheung had suffered from mental illness for 10 years and had not attended any medical appointments since December last year. “CCTV showed that she went to Tseung Kwan O plaza on Monday afternoon,” the insider said. “She bought a pack of 100 pieces of plastic cable tie and went home alone at around 3pm.” But the force had not yet confirmed whether she did kill herself and the case was still being treated as “dead body found”. At midnight, the case was classified as a murder. It was reclassified because police did not find anyone suspicious entering or leaving the building based on CCTV footage. “The windows and main door were not pried open,” Lo said. He added that while blood was found in the kitchen, bedrooms and living room of the 600 sq ft flat, there were no further signs of a struggle or that the place had been ransacked. There was also no property stolen. Sources told the Post that Cheung was a troubled pupil who had dropped out of school but later returned to her studies. She was a Form Six pupil at CCC Kung Lee College in Tai Hang in Causeway Bay at the time of the incident. According to the school’s website, Cheung was presented with the “best improvement award” in 2016. She was also the second runner-up in a Hong Kong-China writing competition in the same year. On the day of the incident, Cheung’s mother had gone out in the afternoon, leaving her daughter at home. Cheung later called her mother to tell her that she would be going out for coffee. Lo said the mother was in shock and sent to hospital for treatment after discovering her daughter’s body. Detectives collected bags and boxes of Cheung’s personal belongings, including bloodstained clothes, photos and bedsheets. They were also to take statements from neighbours. Officers from the Police Tactical Unit swept the scene for evidence. Lo said officers would look into Cheung’s health, mental state and financial situation before her death. No one has been arrested. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Problems arising from school work topped the reasons, followed by worry about the future and family disputes Comments:    Suicides among Hong Kong children and adolescents accounted for a quarter of all unnatural deaths in 2012 and 2013, according to a new government report. It was the second most common cause of unnatural death after accidents. In those two years there were 20 youngsters between 11 and 17 years old who committed suicide, out of 75 unnatural deaths. The number of Hongkongers below 18 years old who took their own lives in the period was the lowest in four reports on child fatality issued since 2006. The figure marked a slight decline from the last report, which said there were 35 suicides in 2010 and 2011. The latest numbers, based on reports from the Coroner’s Court, brought the suicide total for teens up to 105 between 2006 and 2013. Problems arising from school work topped the reasons for suicide, followed by worry about the future and family disputes. Most cases involved a mix of factors.  “Parents need to be more aware of symptoms or warning signals that might indicate their children are in a crisis,” Child Fatality Review Panel chairman Herman Hui Chung-shing said. Seventy per cent of the cases had previously shown suicidal signs, such as leaving death notes or hints on social media, but had gone unnoticed. Eva Dunn Lai-wah, one of the doctors on the panel who reviewed the cases, said the results reflected that some people underestimated the seriousness of the problem. “In one case, a boy told his sister that he would die one day on WhatsApp, but she disregarded it as a joke. Another girl wanted to seek psychological help because of academic stress, but her parents thought it was unnecessary. In other cases, some of the notes were left too late,” Dunn said. Panel members urged family and friends to be more alert to youngsters showing signs of distress or behaving abnormally. “A lot of parents or caretakers only notice superficial symptoms, such as when they become irritable or lack motivation to work or go to school. But it might be a signal that they are depressed or show they are unable to handle certain difficulties,” Dunn said.
“Parents should not be so quick to judge and berate their children. Being strict or punishing children is not always the most effective parenting skill.” The panel reviewed a total of 206 deaths between 2012 and 2013. The majority, 131, died of natural causes, while 75 died of unnatural causes. Another finding panel members highlighted was a possible link between infant deaths and co-sleeping arrangements with parents. The circumstances of death in 30 cases, involving mostly infants below the ages of one, were related to sleeping with adults. A third, or 11 cases, happened between 2012 and 2013. Some included babies prone to moving around in their sleep at night and falling off the bed, or those who had stopped breathing after they turned over on their stomach to sleep. Paediatrician Tony Lau Ka-fai said it was best for babies to sleep in their own separate cot, and it was unnecessary to place objects on the infant’s chest while sleeping. If you are feeling stressed or in need of support, you can contact Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Tools include flagging worrying posts and featuring help tips more prominently Comments:    A government-appointed student suicide prevention committee has been in talks with Google and Facebook on how to identify and help young people in Hong Kong who have suicidal tendencies. Citing an official report released last week on child fatality, Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, who chairs the committee, said on Sunday that about 70 per cent of young Hongkongers who committed suicide had shown warning signs in different ways. “We have been discussing with Google and Facebook how to respond actively when some people show warning signs online and how to identify this group of people as soon as possible,” Yip said. “These signs may not just be a phone call, but also WhatsApp messages, emojis and Facebook posts.”  Facebook has introduced a suicide prevention tool enabling users to flag posts from friends who show warning signs. The company then sends a list of options to the people whose activity has raised concern, including reaching out to a friend, contacting a helpline or viewing tips. Yip said the committee wanted to work with the company to establish a pattern of suicidal Facebook posts and set up an “early warning system” based on the data.  He explained such a system could automatically detect suicidal cases and allow reviewers to send reminders to the individuals concerned, their friends or schools, based on their posts. Yip noted worries about potential privacy issues in the plan, but he said most people who were suicidal would “not find it intrusive” because they were looking for help when posting alarming messages.  Google has been featuring search results about suicide prevention help and tips more prominently when users look for particular combinations such as “ways to commit suicide”. Yip said the committee had been discussing with the company ways to improve the resources for Hong Kong users. The committee was set up last year after a worrying spike in the number of youth suicides in the city. While 71 pupils took their own lives between 2013 and 2016, 23 cases were reported in the 2015-16 school year – seven in a span of 10 days. As hundreds of thousands of pupils started going back to school last Friday, the issue was again brought to public attention. Dr Liu Kwong-sun, deputy director of the Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong, said many clinical cases showed suicidal intentions existed among pupils in local, direct-subsidy and international schools, students at universities and even adults who had just left the education system and started work. “This shows that the society-wide expectation of students is very high, much higher than what students can afford,” Liu said on a radio show on Sunday. “We did not have this environmental pressure in the last generation. “Could there be more room for [suicide] prevention?” Liu expressed hope the Education Bureau and schools could focus less on academic performance and more on young people’s emotional education, to encourage perseverance, responsibility and confidence. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
No let up in student suicide battle Schools are better prepared to prevent student suicides this year, but more needs to be done through social media, an expert says. "Apart from talking about classes, the schools also tell students to seek help if they have problems," said Paul Yip Siu- fai, the head of the Education Bureau's Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. "We have more preparations than before, but we will not relax," Yip said yesterday. Yip, director of the University of Hong Kong's Center for Suicide Research and Prevention, was appointed last year to head the panel following a spate of student suicides. The committee's final report and recommendations were submitted to the then-secretary for education Eddie Ng Hak-kim in November. Yip said the committee is discussing with social-media giants, including Facebook and Google, about procedures for handling signs of potential suicides on the internet and how to find those students as quickly as possible. He said students express such signs in many ways. "It is not necessary that they will release these signals through phone calls - they can be on WhatsApp, in emojis or by leaving comments on Facebook," he said.  Yip said the authorities also helped teachers to improve their ability to detect students who have problems, and to put more resources in the education sector. He also appreciated the positive changes in media reports, saying there were fewer sensational reports about students committing suicide in the past six months. The Social Welfare Department's Child Fatality Review Panel released its third report on Thursday, saying there were 20 child or youth suicide cases among 206 deaths of children aged below 18 in 2012 and 2013 reported to the Coroner's Court, including those who died of natural and non- natural causes. It also said children and youngsters committing suicide were mainly due to "schoolwork problems, worries about their futures and relationship problems with family members or boyfriends or girlfriends." Yip quoted the report as saying about 70 percent of children who committed suicide showed suicidal signs but adults sometimes ignored those signals because they were too busy.  The associate director of the HKU center, Liu Kwong-sun, said parents have to spend more time with their children and communicate with them directly, including using the internet. Liu also said students face much greater pressure than previous generations. Parents and teachers should also help children to improve their emotional management skills and not just focus on academic results. Today's Standard 
            Trademark and Copyright Notice: Copyright 2018, The Standard Newspaper Publishing Ltd., and its related entities. All rights reserved.
            Use in whole or part of this site's content is prohibited. Use of this Web site assumes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Privacy Policy Statement
and Copyright Policy.  Please also read our Ethics Statement.
          
Social welfare sector lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun has hit out at Chief Executive Carrie Lam for neglecting to mention the problem of student suicides in her policy address. During a question-and-answer session at the Legislative Council on Thursday, Shiu told Lam that there were two instances of suicide and attempted suicide earlier that day. A CUHK student was taken to the hospital around 2am after a suspected suicide attempt, and an 11-year-old boy in school uniform died after falling from a building in Tai Po, according to Ming Pao and RTHK. Carrie Lam. Photo: HKFP/Catherine Lai. “Over the past two years, there have been over 72 suicides among young people, from primary school students to postgraduate students. 72 is not a number; it concerns stories, and lives,” Shiu said. “In the policy address, the focus is not on housing, but on developing the economy, benefitting those with invested interests, innovation with One Belt One Road, massive infrastructure projects… it’s all about money.” “What is the price of a young person’s life? What is the price of 72 lives?… Under what circumstances will you properly and solemnly respond to the problem of youth suicides, and host a summit on youth suicides? It’s only by respecting death that you can respect life,” Shiu said. In response, Lam said that there was “no need to use such emotional language,” and added that she started being concerned about youth suicides when she was the Director of Social Welfare. “If you ask Professor Paul Yip, who has done the most research on suicides in Hong Kong, I have long demonstrated concern over the issue and in order to facilitate his research, I have requested that departments make numbers available to him.” Shiu Ka-chun holding a list of dates on which students committed suicide. Photo: HKFP/Catherine Lai. She also said that she does not recall any requests for a summit, but promised to ask the Secretary for Labour and Welfare to follow up. Earlier this year, concern groups petitioned Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung, urging him to hold a summit on youth suicides. Lam stressed that “the government cares a lot about mental health issues, especially those relating to young people.” Her policy address did not mention student suicides specifically, but it said: “Based on the evaluation results of the Student Mental Health Support Pilot Scheme, we will consider ways to provide appropriate support services for students with mental health needs.” If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. The Hong Kong Society of Counseling and Psychology provides a WhatsApp hotline in English and Chinese: 6218 1084.  Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Its survey finds most support making ‘seven hours or fewer’ standard Comments:    In a bid to ease stress and prevent teen suicide, Hong Kong parents and pupils have called for capping the time children spend on their studies to no more than seven hours a day, effectively sparing them from academic work after school. Allowing children more free time could improve relations with their parents, they also believed. The calls came as a concern group on Sunday released initial findings of its survey to coincide with the 15th annual World Suicide Prevention Day.  Conducted since mid-July by the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention, the survey is ongoing but analyses of the 631 questionnaires collected so far showed about 90 per cent of the respondents, mainly comprising parents and pupils, wanted “standard study hours” to be implemented to help ease schoolchildren’s stress. Of this number, about 70 per cent said the “standard” should be set at “seven hours or fewer” per day. Alliance spokesman Lai Pak-yin said some students indicated they had spent 13 hours a day studying. “Can you imagine a youngster having to bury himself in books for so long each day?” Lai asked. “Can you expect a youngster to develop good mental health under such stressful conditions? Without counting time for TV or computer games, they won’t even have time to speak to their parents.” He added the group was not asking for a new law to govern academic study but hoped the Education Bureau would issue guidelines. Annie Cheung Yim-shuen, a spokeswoman for Parents United of Hong Kong, another concern group, criticised Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor. She accused Lam – who pledged to make education policy a top priority – of failing to come up with measures to tackle student suicides. “It is academic to talk about nurturing future generations or investing in quality education if our students can’t get help to stay alive,” Cheung said. Inspired by a project in New Zealand, about 10 alliance members placed empty shoes on a pavement in Mong Kok on Sunday and observed a minute of silence to commemorate young people who had committed suicide in Hong Kong. A bureau spokesman said on Sunday the authority was not prepared to make immediate comments on the “standard study hour” suggestion. In Hong Kong, the government encourages whole-day schooling, which officials believe is more effective in enhancing pupils’ learning and all-round development. Students spend on average seven hours a day at school. Public concerns intensified after a recent spate of student suicides. Last week, a 16-year-old Tuen Mun student who was said to have performed well academically jumped to his death. Two weeks ago, a 19-year-old Institute of Vocational Education student jumped to his death from his Lam Tin home. Last month, a Chinese University student killed herself by inhaling helium at her Ngau Tau Kok home. In Hong Kong, 69 young people aged 24 or below committed suicide last year, up from 65 in 2015, according to figures compiled by the University of Hong Kong’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
Call to limit student study hours Concern groups proposed the setting of "standard studying hours" to reduce student stress and help to prevent suicides. Youngsters face enormous pressure under the current education system as apart from attending school, many also go to tutorial classes.  Extended study time leads to insufficient sleep and play, said the groups  Social Workers Align With Students Under Pressure and Citizens' Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide. On World Suicide Prevention Day yesterday, the groups urged the government to face up to the problem of students taking their own lives and consider setting regulations or guidelines to restrict the number of study hours - similar to standard working hours for employees. Over the past two months, the groups interviewed 631 students, parents, teachers and social workers, and some 90 percent supported the idea of standard studying hours. More than 70 percent believed a maximum of seven hours of study a day would be appropriate, including time spent at school and tutorial classes. Lai Pak-yin, spokesman for Social Workers Align With Students Under Pressure, said many secondary school students spend around 10 hours on their studies every day, with some even taking longer than that. He also said government suggestions for tackling student suicides are not practical for frontline teachers and social workers - it is more important to stay with students when they are going through a hard time than training them to have a positive attitude. Chan Chi-chung from Citizens' Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide said there should be fundamental changes in the education system, as academic studies are the main source of pressure for students. Chan also said the government should do more to create family-friendly employment practices, as many parents are too busy at work and cannot help their children in time when they have problems. Annie Cheung Yim-shuen from Parents United of Hong Kong said many parents lacked knowledge on childhood mental health. "Sometimes young people cry, go quiet, or slam the door shut, but parents often neither realize these are signs of problems nor know how to handle the situations," she said, adding the government should strengthen education for parents and provide more support to schools. Cheung said studying seven hours a day is already a long time, and many students do not get eight hours of sleep. The groups are continuing the survey until next month to gather views on ways to reduce students' pressure. They also urged the government to hold a student suicide prevention summit to listen to opinions from society. Today's Standard 
            Trademark and Copyright Notice: Copyright 2018, The Standard Newspaper Publishing Ltd., and its related entities. All rights reserved.
            Use in whole or part of this site's content is prohibited. Use of this Web site assumes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Privacy Policy Statement
and Copyright Policy.  Please also read our Ethics Statement.
          
 Universities in Hong Kong Case that sparked outrage and unleashed debate on personal data rights and freedom of speech turned over to school’s disciplinary committee Comments:    The Education University confirmed on Friday that the two men captured on surveillance footage putting up posters on campus mocking the suicide of a top education official’s son were its own students. The investigation committee set up to look into the matter reported the result to the institution’s governing council. “The committee confirmed that the two persons who put up posters on the democracy wall on September 7 were students of the Education University,” a university spokesman said.  “The case has been passed to the Student Disciplinary Committee for follow-up action.” On September 7, twelve sheets of A4 paper were affixed to the university’s democracy wall, a space set aside for students to express their views. The posters went up hours after Poon Hong-yan, the 25-year-old son of deputy education chief Christine Choi Yuk-lin, jumped to his death at a residential complex in Yau Ma Tei. The posters “congratulated” Choi on the incident in Chinese. The messages sparked outrage across the city, with Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor calling them “cold-blooded” and Education University council chairman Frederick Ma Si-hang saying there were “limits to freedom of speech”. In its response, however, the university’s student union emphasised the importance of free speech. A day after the incident, vice-chancellor Stephen Cheung Yan-leung said two men were captured by closed-circuit TV cameras putting up the posters. But the leaked images drew criticism and unleashed a debate on the rights of personal data and free speech. Hundreds of school principals also condemned the taunting, with one school rejecting 10 internships for Education University undergraduates. Other employers threatened to never hire its graduates. On September 9, a poster written in simplified Chinese and mocking the death of Chinese dissident and Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo appeared on the same wall. In that case, the disciplinary committee failed to identify the three suspects captured by CCTV as they had “covered their face deliberately”. Asked whether the university would follow up the matter, the spokesman said the case had been transferred to the committee to follow up, adding: “No speculation should be made”. He assured that the school would handle the matter fairly in accordance with its rules and regulations. The committee comprises the director of student affairs, teaching staff and student union representatives. According to school regulations, the most serious punishment the students could face is expulsion. A spokesman for the Education Bureau said it had already condemned the students’ behaviour and believed the university would handle the matter appropriately. He added that the bureau respected freedom of speech, yet stressed that views should be expressed legally, respectfully and meet a moral standard. “Society also holds university students to certain expectations.” You are signed up. We think you'd also like
Groups concerned about student suicides have urged Hong Kong’s chief executive to face up to the tragic problem of children and teenagers taking their own lives. A total of 3,919 individuals and 123 civil groups have signed an online petition to urge Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor to pay attention to  student suicides and carry out changes in the education system, Apple Daily reported. Groups including the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention and Parents United of Hong Kong will hold a protest on Sunday in which 74 people will walk barefoot from the Legislative Council to the chief executive’s office. A total of 74 children and teenagers committed suicide in the past two years in Hong Kong. The groups slammed Lam for failing to come up with any measures to  combat youth suicides since becoming the city’s chief executive in July, and only focusing on economic development in her first Policy Address, which she gave this month. They urged the Hong Kong government to set up a cross-departmental task force to tackle student suicides and to evaluate education policy. They also asked the government to provide funding of HK$200,000 (US$25,630) to each school for the implementation of programs to ease the pressure students are under, fully implement “rest days” – that is,  school days that have no classes and free students just to play games – and increase the number of school social workers. The alliance will meet with Kevin Yeung Yun-hung, secretary for education, next Monday. Read: Two students commit suicide in one day, a third boy saved Read: Student stressed about final exams jumps to death at school

An 11-year-old boy and a 17-year-old Secondary 6 student jumped to their deaths from buildings in Tai Po, New Territories, and Kowloon’s Yau Tong respectively on Thursday, and an 18-year-old schoolboy was saved after jumping into a river. At 7:55am, the 11-year-old was found lying on the grounds of Kwong Yau House in Kwong Fok Estate in Tai Po, Ta Kung Pao reported. Police believed he had jumped from 16th floor of the building. He was sent to hospital but was pronounced dead. It was understood that the boy had been upset about his parents’ unhappy marriage and the death of his grandmother in April, Apple Daily reported. At 11:30 the same morning, a 17-year-old male student jumped from the rooftop of the Domain Mall in Yau Tong. Paramedics took him to hospital but he was pronounced dead. At 4pm, an 18-year-old boy wearing a school uniform jumped into the Lam Tsuen River in Tai Po. He was rescued by three passers-by and sent to hospital for medical treatment. The teenager told police that he had been under great pressure with his studies. Social-welfare-sector lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun accused Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor at the Legislative Council on Thursday of lack of concern about youngsters committing suicide. A total of 72 students committed suicide in the past two years in the city, Shui said, adding: “72 is not a number, they are stories, they are lives.” He said Lam only focused on economic development in her first Policy Address, Ming Pao Daily reported. Lam told Shiu he didn’t have to speak so emotionally, saying she had been concerned about the issue for a long time since she was the director of the Social Welfare Department. The Samaritans run a 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline +852 2896 0000 or e-mails can be sent to jo@samaritans.org.hk.

<<<<<<< HEAD
 Music Stunned by the suicides of Soundgarden’s Chris Cornell and Linkin Park’s Chester Bennington, and of people close to band members, The Raptors are joining The David Bowie Knives, Jimmy2Times and The Privateers for a benefit gig at Kitec Comments:    Last May, singer Chris Cornell – the frontman of Soundgarden and a member of Audioslave – was found dead in a Detroit hotel room. The 52-year-old had hanged himself. Three months later Chester Bennington, the lead singer of Linkin Park, met the same end at his home in Los Angeles. The suicides shocked and saddened music fans around the world, and in Hong Kong, local rock band The Raptors was especially hard hit. Songs by both Cornell and Bennington were regularly on the group’s playlist, and lead singer Sky Suen is a big fan of Linkin Park. “Their deaths really affected us. Even at those high levels where seemingly they are living this wonderful life, there can be this dark secret that is eating away at them,” says Greg Sutcliffe, the band’s bassist. Both he and Suen have lost someone close to them to suicide. In 2006, Sutcliffe’s brother, who had a history of depression, committed suicide. And in 2014, Suen’s boyfriend Aaron took his own life. They experienced not only the pain of losing someone they loved, but also the taboo surrounding suicide, and the reluctance of people to openly discuss their thoughts and feelings for fear of being stigmatised. Sutcliffe had no idea his brother was at risk of suicide. “The thing about people with depression is they are very good at disguising it, partly because there is such a stigma attached to mental health so they are pressured into not speaking out,” he says. “Being aware of people’s mental health issues is fundamental to suicide prevention. It’s incumbent on people who have survived suicide to talk about how terrible and how lasting it is. My family is still suffering 11 years on.” Wanting to mark the passing of two of their favourite musicians and create an environment in which suicide can be discussed without stigma, they decided to host a charity concert, with money raised going to aid the Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. “Somewhere I Belong” will be held at Kitec on January 20, from 7pm to 10pm, and will feature three Hong Kong rock bands – The David Bowie Knives, Jimmy2Times and The Raptors – and a folk band, The Privateers. “We want a concert in Chris and Chester’s memory. We want people to come and hang out and listen to good music and have fun. Listening to music is a good way to release your emotions. We want people to come with their friends and meet new friends,” says Suen. Each band’s playlist for the night will include songs connected to the benefit gig’s theme – “Listen Up, Speak Out: Suicide Prevention Starts With Suicide Awareness” – and of personal significance. The Raptors will play Audioslave’s Be Yourself and a song by Linkin Park, New Divide. “Be Yourself is a very strong song all about just being yourself. And New Divide is about how to get back from the dark side. All the songs we’ll play will be quite positive,” says Suen. Jimmy2Times, a band made up of English Schools Foundation teachers, will play Dakota by the Stereophonics. “It’s a song that we’ve always loved playing and reminds us of Tim [Ford] and the great times we had together as a band,” says John Edwards, Jimmy2Times’ drummer. Ford was the vice-principal of King George V School. In 2012, the 46-year-old was found hanging in the bathroom at home by his wife Jane. His suicide shocked his family, friends and the school, where his wife and some bandmates worked. “Tim was the founding member of the band and the guitarist. When he took his own life, it was devastating. It came out of the blue, he didn’t mention anything to us at all,” says Edwards. In 2016, 1,000 people in Hong Kong committed suicide, and the number fluctuates annually between 800 and 1,200, says Clarence Tsang, executive director of Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. Although the common assumption is that young people account for the majority of deaths, it is actually men aged between 60 and 70 who are most at risk. Student suicides tend to cluster at the start of an academic year or term, he says. And men, broadly speaking, are more vulnerable than women. “Men are less able to express themselves when they have emotional problems, while women are more willing to talk about their emotions with a friend, family member or counsellor. Men are also less willing to seek professional help,” says Tsang. Sutcliffe says current attitudes towards mental health issues need to change, and he applauds Britain’s Prince Harry for speaking openly about his personal struggles last year and campaigning against the stigma of mental illness. “There is an overwhelming sense that people are just a bit sad and they need to man up – and that doesn’t help,” says Sutcliffe. He says people who are feeling suicidal need to feel that they have others on their side, that they are not alone. “As a society, a community, we need to be more open to talking about these things and making it easier for people to own up to having suicidal thoughts and share their problems. Currently there is such a stigma,” says Sutcliffe, adding that just being there for a friend and listening to them is a huge benefit. Since her boyfriend’s suicide, Suen says, she has been very aware of friends who are struggling and goes out of her way to be there for them. “When people have depression they can’t hear you at all. They just want you to listen to them, to care about them. I did that for a few of my friends and they are much happier now. Instead of being depressed after Aaron died, I try to use the experience to be positive,” says Suen. It is not uncommon for those close to someone who committed suicide to fall into depression themselves. Suen says a close friend of Aaron’s fell into a downward spiral after his death. He moved to Britain, split up with his wife and became quite isolated. Suen says friends clubbed together to buy him an air ticket to return to Hong Kong and got him treatment. “He needed someone to listen to him. Now, when he gets down, he calls his friends and we hang out,” says Suen. Suicide is a risk for the bereaved. “Survivors need to start taking better care of each other,” she says. Tsang emphasises that when a friend has a problem, the best thing to do is to listen and try to understand. “Especially for local Chinese, we have a tendency to give advice and judge, and try to find solutions, but it’s not appropriate to do that. Giving solutions risks giving the sense that you don’t understand,” says Tsang. Samaritan Befrienders was set up in Hong Kong 57 years ago, and although established by Westerners it has focused on the local rather than expatriate community. Tsang sees that beginning to change. “In the last three or four years, the Western community in Hong Kong has been trying to do more in suicide prevention work and we are getting more support. That’s very good. We hope it will continue,” he says. In Britain, there is a growing awareness about mental health issues in the music industry. “It’s an epidemic. In the UK they are doing a lot around awareness. Perhaps artistic, creative people are more vulnerable,” says Sutcliffe. Last month a new 24/7 mental health service was launched to help people within the music industry. “Music Minds Matter” was launched in the wake of the death of Bennington and will offer support and counselling for musicians and people in the music industry who have mental health issues. The new British service follows a study conducted in 2016 – “Can Music Make You Sick?” – that found that of 2,000 musicians surveyed, 71.1 per cent said they had experienced panic attacks or high levels of anxiety, and 68.5 per cent reported having suffered depression. Tickets for Hong Kong’s first benefit gig to raise suicide awareness are on sale now through Cityline, which can be accessed through the concert’s homepage somewhereibelong.org. Sutcliffe hopes to make this an annual event and to include even more bands next year. “So many people’s lives have been touched by this issue that it’s ridiculous it’s not more openly discussed and that people don’t feel comfortable discussing it, which is why this is such a great cause,” says Edwards. 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care: +852 2868 1211 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
More than 100 people took part in a barefoot march on Sunday in Hong Kong, calling on the government to pay more attention to the issue of student suicides.  The rally, led by members from two concern groups — the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention, and Parents United of Hong Kong — saw the participants walk from the Legislative Council to the Chief Executive’s Office without any footwear. During the event, protesters demanded that Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor take the youth suicide problem seriously and carry out changes in the education system, Apple Daily reports. The march came amid mounting concerns among parents, teachers and social workers after Hong Kong witnessed 74 student suicides in the city between August 2015 and October 12 this year. During the rally Sunday, protestors took off their shoes and placed them on a black banner on the floor, with all 74 suicide dates marked out on the banner in order to remind the public of the tragic incidents. Each pair of shoes represents one forgotten child, the Civil Alliance said. By visualizing the suicide cases in such a way, the group said it hoped to raise awareness in society about the problem. After the demonstration was over, the protestors all bowed down in silence as the dates of the students’ suicides were recited. However, neither Carrie Lam nor any staff from the Office of the Chief Executive met with the groups to receive their letter. Both the organizations backed Legislator Shiu Ka-chun’s idea that the government should launch a summit to handle student suicide problems, news website HK01.com reports. The idea was rejected by Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Law Chi-kwong, with the official arguing that a high-profile summit would only “spread the infectious idea of suicide”. The concern groups responded by stating that the summit would not tackle each suicide case individually, but will only discuss ways to improve the entire system as a whole. The organizations will meet with the Education Secretary Kevin Yeung Yun-hung soon to discuss the topic. They have also arranged to meet the Secretary for Labour and Welfare, and Secretary for Home Affairs. A teacher surnamed Yam said he joined Sunday’s protest because he believes the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education examination is causing too much stress for students. Yam told Apple Daily that each time a student commits suicide, he feels as if he himself had been the executioner as he had been teaching them and giving them homework. A parent at the protest, a woman surnamed Wong, said that her daughter had been forced to start writing at the young age of two. She pointed out that the child has come under great stress and had felt unhappy because she could not write the characters properly. As the Hong Kong education system puts too much stress on results, many schools had pushed their students too hard and made matters worse. A spokesperson from the Civil Alliance, Cheung Sau-yin, called on the government to establish an inter-departmental committee to solve the problems of mandatory social workers at schools. If that is done, many problems can be looked into with more effective communication, Cheung said. Tong Chung-yee, a spokesperson for Parents United, noted that authorities had started a program where schools were given HK$200,000 funding for promoting mental health, under the “Joyful at School” initiative. However, she cited official statistics as showing that only 40 percent of the schools had been given the green light for the program. Given this situation, Tong urged the government to allow more schools to benefit from the scheme. - Contact us at [email protected] EL/BN/RC 
=======
More than 100 people took part in a barefoot march on Sunday in Hong Kong, calling on the government to pay more attention to the issue of student suicides.  The rally, led by members from two concern groups — the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention, and Parents United of Hong Kong — saw the participants walk from the Legislative Council to the Chief Executive’s Office without any footwear. During the event, protesters demanded that Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor take the youth suicide problem seriously and carry out changes in the education system, Apple Daily reports. The march came amid mounting concerns among parents, teachers and social workers after Hong Kong witnessed 74 student suicides in the city between August 2015 and October 12 this year. During the rally Sunday, protestors took off their shoes and placed them on a black banner on the floor, with all 74 suicide dates marked out on the banner in order to remind the public of the tragic incidents. Each pair of shoes represents one forgotten child, the Civil Alliance said. By visualizing the suicide cases in such a way, the group said it hoped to raise awareness in society about the problem. After the demonstration was over, the protestors all bowed down in silence as the dates of the students’ suicides were recited. However, neither Carrie Lam nor any staff from the Office of the Chief Executive met with the groups to receive their letter. Both the organizations backed Legislator Shiu Ka-chun’s idea that the government should launch a summit to handle student suicide problems, news website HK01.com reports. The idea was rejected by Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Law Chi-kwong, with the official arguing that a high-profile summit would only “spread the infectious idea of suicide”. The concern groups responded by stating that the summit would not tackle each suicide case individually, but will only discuss ways to improve the entire system as a whole. The organizations will meet with the Education Secretary Kevin Yeung Yun-hung soon to discuss the topic. They have also arranged to meet the Secretary for Labour and Welfare, and Secretary for Home Affairs. A teacher surnamed Yam said he joined Sunday’s protest because he believes the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education examination is causing too much stress for students. Yam told Apple Daily that each time a student commits suicide, he feels as if he himself had been the executioner as he had been teaching them and giving them homework. A parent at the protest, a woman surnamed Wong, said that her daughter had been forced to start writing at the young age of two. She pointed out that the child has come under great stress and had felt unhappy because she could not write the characters properly. As the Hong Kong education system puts too much stress on results, many schools had pushed their students too hard and made matters worse. A spokesperson from the Civil Alliance, Cheung Sau-yin, called on the government to establish an inter-departmental committee to solve the problems of mandatory social workers at schools. If that is done, many problems can be looked into with more effective communication, Cheung said. Tong Chung-yee, a spokesperson for Parents United, noted that authorities had started a program where schools were given HK$200,000 funding for promoting mental health, under the “Joyful at School” initiative. However, she cited official statistics as showing that only 40 percent of the schools had been given the green light for the program. Given this situation, Tong urged the government to allow more schools to benefit from the scheme. - Contact us at [email protected] EL/BN/RC 
 Music Stunned by the suicides of Soundgarden’s Chris Cornell and Linkin Park’s Chester Bennington, and of people close to band members, The Raptors are joining The David Bowie Knives, Jimmy2Times and The Privateers for a benefit gig at Kitec Comments:    Last May, singer Chris Cornell – the frontman of Soundgarden and a member of Audioslave – was found dead in a Detroit hotel room. The 52-year-old had hanged himself. Three months later Chester Bennington, the lead singer of Linkin Park, met the same end at his home in Los Angeles. The suicides shocked and saddened music fans around the world, and in Hong Kong, local rock band The Raptors was especially hard hit. Songs by both Cornell and Bennington were regularly on the group’s playlist, and lead singer Sky Suen is a big fan of Linkin Park. “Their deaths really affected us. Even at those high levels where seemingly they are living this wonderful life, there can be this dark secret that is eating away at them,” says Greg Sutcliffe, the band’s bassist. Both he and Suen have lost someone close to them to suicide. In 2006, Sutcliffe’s brother, who had a history of depression, committed suicide. And in 2014, Suen’s boyfriend Aaron took his own life. They experienced not only the pain of losing someone they loved, but also the taboo surrounding suicide, and the reluctance of people to openly discuss their thoughts and feelings for fear of being stigmatised. Sutcliffe had no idea his brother was at risk of suicide. “The thing about people with depression is they are very good at disguising it, partly because there is such a stigma attached to mental health so they are pressured into not speaking out,” he says. “Being aware of people’s mental health issues is fundamental to suicide prevention. It’s incumbent on people who have survived suicide to talk about how terrible and how lasting it is. My family is still suffering 11 years on.” Wanting to mark the passing of two of their favourite musicians and create an environment in which suicide can be discussed without stigma, they decided to host a charity concert, with money raised going to aid the Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. “Somewhere I Belong” will be held at Kitec on January 20, from 7pm to 10pm, and will feature three Hong Kong rock bands – The David Bowie Knives, Jimmy2Times and The Raptors – and a folk band, The Privateers. “We want a concert in Chris and Chester’s memory. We want people to come and hang out and listen to good music and have fun. Listening to music is a good way to release your emotions. We want people to come with their friends and meet new friends,” says Suen. Each band’s playlist for the night will include songs connected to the benefit gig’s theme – “Listen Up, Speak Out: Suicide Prevention Starts With Suicide Awareness” – and of personal significance. The Raptors will play Audioslave’s Be Yourself and a song by Linkin Park, New Divide. “Be Yourself is a very strong song all about just being yourself. And New Divide is about how to get back from the dark side. All the songs we’ll play will be quite positive,” says Suen. Jimmy2Times, a band made up of English Schools Foundation teachers, will play Dakota by the Stereophonics. “It’s a song that we’ve always loved playing and reminds us of Tim [Ford] and the great times we had together as a band,” says John Edwards, Jimmy2Times’ drummer. Ford was the vice-principal of King George V School. In 2012, the 46-year-old was found hanging in the bathroom at home by his wife Jane. His suicide shocked his family, friends and the school, where his wife and some bandmates worked. “Tim was the founding member of the band and the guitarist. When he took his own life, it was devastating. It came out of the blue, he didn’t mention anything to us at all,” says Edwards. In 2016, 1,000 people in Hong Kong committed suicide, and the number fluctuates annually between 800 and 1,200, says Clarence Tsang, executive director of Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong. Although the common assumption is that young people account for the majority of deaths, it is actually men aged between 60 and 70 who are most at risk. Student suicides tend to cluster at the start of an academic year or term, he says. And men, broadly speaking, are more vulnerable than women. “Men are less able to express themselves when they have emotional problems, while women are more willing to talk about their emotions with a friend, family member or counsellor. Men are also less willing to seek professional help,” says Tsang. Sutcliffe says current attitudes towards mental health issues need to change, and he applauds Britain’s Prince Harry for speaking openly about his personal struggles last year and campaigning against the stigma of mental illness. “There is an overwhelming sense that people are just a bit sad and they need to man up – and that doesn’t help,” says Sutcliffe. He says people who are feeling suicidal need to feel that they have others on their side, that they are not alone. “As a society, a community, we need to be more open to talking about these things and making it easier for people to own up to having suicidal thoughts and share their problems. Currently there is such a stigma,” says Sutcliffe, adding that just being there for a friend and listening to them is a huge benefit. Since her boyfriend’s suicide, Suen says, she has been very aware of friends who are struggling and goes out of her way to be there for them. “When people have depression they can’t hear you at all. They just want you to listen to them, to care about them. I did that for a few of my friends and they are much happier now. Instead of being depressed after Aaron died, I try to use the experience to be positive,” says Suen. It is not uncommon for those close to someone who committed suicide to fall into depression themselves. Suen says a close friend of Aaron’s fell into a downward spiral after his death. He moved to Britain, split up with his wife and became quite isolated. Suen says friends clubbed together to buy him an air ticket to return to Hong Kong and got him treatment. “He needed someone to listen to him. Now, when he gets down, he calls his friends and we hang out,” says Suen. Suicide is a risk for the bereaved. “Survivors need to start taking better care of each other,” she says. Tsang emphasises that when a friend has a problem, the best thing to do is to listen and try to understand. “Especially for local Chinese, we have a tendency to give advice and judge, and try to find solutions, but it’s not appropriate to do that. Giving solutions risks giving the sense that you don’t understand,” says Tsang. Samaritan Befrienders was set up in Hong Kong 57 years ago, and although established by Westerners it has focused on the local rather than expatriate community. Tsang sees that beginning to change. “In the last three or four years, the Western community in Hong Kong has been trying to do more in suicide prevention work and we are getting more support. That’s very good. We hope it will continue,” he says. In Britain, there is a growing awareness about mental health issues in the music industry. “It’s an epidemic. In the UK they are doing a lot around awareness. Perhaps artistic, creative people are more vulnerable,” says Sutcliffe. Last month a new 24/7 mental health service was launched to help people within the music industry. “Music Minds Matter” was launched in the wake of the death of Bennington and will offer support and counselling for musicians and people in the music industry who have mental health issues. The new British service follows a study conducted in 2016 – “Can Music Make You Sick?” – that found that of 2,000 musicians surveyed, 71.1 per cent said they had experienced panic attacks or high levels of anxiety, and 68.5 per cent reported having suffered depression. Tickets for Hong Kong’s first benefit gig to raise suicide awareness are on sale now through Cityline, which can be accessed through the concert’s homepage somewhereibelong.org. Sutcliffe hopes to make this an annual event and to include even more bands next year. “So many people’s lives have been touched by this issue that it’s ridiculous it’s not more openly discussed and that people don’t feel comfortable discussing it, which is why this is such a great cause,” says Edwards. 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care: +852 2868 1211 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
>>>>>>> dac151d6166d58e5751b922e046fbf2663ae01db
The government is under pressure to take measures after three student suicide cases were reported in one day on Thursday. One of the victims, an 18-year-old secondary 6 student, was saved by passers-by after he jumped into the river from a pedestrian overpass near the Tai Po Mega Mall, Apple Daily reports. He was in his school uniform.  A source said pressure from schoolwork drove him to try to kill himself. At around 7 a.m., an 11-year-old primary six pupil was found lying on the ground at Kwong Yau House in Kwong Fuk Estate, a public rental housing estate in Tai Po where he and his family lived. He was rushed to hospital where he was later pronounced dead. Investigators said the boy jumped off the building because he could not deal with the death of his grandmother and the impending divorce of his parents. A secondary six student also died in hospital after he jumped off the top of the Domain Mall in Yau Tong at about 11:21 a.m. Police recovered a note at the scene, in which the 17-year-old said he was under pressure and felt he had no direction in life. Social welfare functional constituency lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun and the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention urged the government to take action to prevent a recurrence of the incidents. They proposed a government-led anti-teenage suicide summit to help tackle the problem.  More than 20 students have committed suicide so far this year, according to Apple Daily. EJ Insight supports efforts to help people deal with depression and related issues. Here is the 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline of The Samaritans: +852 2896 0000 (or email [email protected]). - Contact us at [email protected] TL/JC/RA 
 Anti-mainland sentiments Another poster making light of the dead, this time mainland dissident and Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo, appears on campus Comments:    Hundreds of school principals have condemned the taunting of a top education official over the suicide of her eldest son, amid signs of a backlash by prospective employers against students from the university at the centre of the storm. By Saturday night, schools had rejected 10 internships for Education University undergraduates as other employers threatened to never hire its graduates, said the student union president, quoting a university staff member at a meeting with union representatives. Students must complete internships before they can graduate. The university received 1,700 signatures from various groups, including 524 school principals, voicing their disapproval over the message, which “congratulated” Undersecretary for Education Christine Choi Yuk-lin on the suicide of her 25-year-old son. The identity of the culprits, and whether they even go to EdU, was still unknown. The furore, however, did not stop a similar message being put up at another institution, City University, and another poster – this time in simplified, rather than traditional, Chinese – appearing at EdU “congratulating” late Chinese dissident and Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo for dying and his wife Liu Xia for being under house arrest. The original taunt, aimed at grieving Choi, appeared on Thursday evening at the EdU campus. It drew widespread condemnation, led by Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, who called it “callous” and “cold-blooded”. While the student union rejected the message, it defended the poster in the name of freedom of speech, drawing further ire as others, including Lam, made clear such freedoms do not override moral values. According to union president Lala Lai Hiu-ching, university managers said they “received emails from school principals saying they would ‘never hire any EdU graduates’. Some principals said that they would not hire any EdU graduates for the next few years”. “At the moment there is no evidence to support that it was done by EdU’s students. I do not think it is fair to students and teachers,” Lai said.  A university spokesman was more circumspect, and would only say it had received “strong reactions and opinions”, including from educators. “Some were relayed through joint statements with signatures collected,” she said. “Teachers are role models for students. The school understands that the education sector is especially concerned when it comes to the behaviour of our future teachers. We will continue to maintain communication ... and work hard to continue our training.” Education Secretary Kevin Yeung Yun-hung said principals he met “had concerns whether these people would become competent teachers.” But no one had told him they would not hire the graduates or cancel internships, he said.  Despite the growing condemnation, a City University security guard discovered three people putting up a similar message of “congratulations” to Choi on the union’s “democracy wall” late on Friday night. It was not clear if they were students, because the trio fled the scene. The school said it “strongly condemned” those responsible and that they “completely disregarded and disrespected the lives of other people”. On Saturday, EdU staff removed another message “congratulating” Liu Xiaobo and his wife. The student union attacked the university’s reactions to the two messages as being “vastly different”. While EdU president Stephen Cheung Yan-leung offered “emotional responses” rejecting remarks about Choi’s son’s death on Friday, such responses were absent for the Liu taunt, Lai said. In Thursday’s incident, two suspects, yet to be publicly identified, declared on the campus “democracy wall” their “congratulations” to the official after her son, Poon Hong-yan, plunged to his death from a luxury flat in Yau Ma Tei. Since the poster surfaced, school staff have been looking through security footage to track down those responsible, and managers plan to step up campus security. Reacting to the backlash, Lai said: “We are very disappointed. On the one hand principals are condemning the students for [making morally controversial statements], but at the same time they choose to destroy their chances at a future. The students should not all be tarred with the same brush.” A government spokesman said that “anyone, regardless of their motives and political stance, should respect others and society’s moral values when exercising their freedom”. He added that any personal attacks did not help foster development of Hong Kong as a “high-quality civil society”. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
Education University (EdUHK) has apologised after CCTV footage was leaked of two individuals suspected to have posted messages teasing a government official over her son’s death. The eldest son of Education Undersecretary Choi Yuk-lin died after falling from a Tsim Sha Tsui flat on Thursday morning. Signs bearing the slogan “Congratulations Choi Yuk-lin’s son on going west” subsequently appeared on the campus’s Democracy Wall, on top of banners supporting freedom of expression and Hong Kong independence. Signs saying “Congratulations Choi Yuk-lin on the death of your son” appeared on top of other signs protesting the removal of banners advocating independence on Education University’s Democracy Wall. Photo: Chung Kim Wah/Facebook. EdUHK President Stephen Cheung said on Friday morning that the school was using CCTV footage to identify the responsible parties. He said that the university would follow strict procedures in using the technology owing to privacy laws. A few hours after Cheung’s statement, CCTV footage leaked online of two men sticking up pieces of paper on the campus’s Democracy Wall at 5:03pm on Thursday afternoon. One man wore a black t-shirt and long trousers and carried a backpack, according to Oriental Daily. The other man wore glasses, a white t-shirt and a dark-coloured jumper. He also carried a bag and his phone. The two individuals appeared to be around 20 years old, but it remains unclear whether they are students at EdUHK. Vice-chancellor of Education University Stephen Cheung. Photo: i-Cable screenshot. EdUHK said that it strongly regretted the leaked footage, and that it would notify the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data of the incident, according to RTHK. It urged media outlets to stop sharing the images in order to protect the involved parties’ privacy, and to give school authorities the space to undertake its own investigation. EdUHK said that CCTV footage collected at the university was used only for internal security purposes. If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. The Hong Kong Society of Counselling and Psychology provides a WhatsApp hotline in English and Chinese: 6218 1084. See also: HKFP’s comprehensive guide to mental health services in Hong Kong  Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Paul Yip says everyone in society has a role to play in preventing suicide, by choosing our words carefully, showing empathy and being alert to those around us, while also not neglecting our own mental well-being Comments:    The government announced this week that it is setting up a task force to monitor efforts to prevent student suicides in Hong Kong. This is welcome news. Though the number of suicides worldwide has fallen over the past decade, from around 1 million a year to 840,000, youth suicides are on the rise. This is mirrored in Hong Kong, where, while the overall suicide rate has dropped (from 18.8 per 100,000 people in 2003 to an estimated 12.6 per 100,000 people in 2016), the rate for those aged 15 to 24 has increased from 7.1 per 100,000 people in 2005 to an estimated 8.9 per 100,000 people in 2016. So, we need effective preventive measures. Education reform is vital to enhance the well-being of our children, but that alone won’t help lower the suicide rate. Our young people need to develop a positive attitude when facing problems and cultivate a stronger social support system. The government has begun to implement the recommendations contained in a report submitted last November by the Committee on the Prevention of Student Suicides. For example, it has given schools more resources to promote mental health, and increased funding for related research. The Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention is also keeping busy. According to research and the latest report of the Child Fatality Review Panel, a majority of students who died by suicide had expressed suicidal thoughts. The centre is working on an early warning system to enhance social awareness of the mental health of our youth. It has also launched a WeCare project to provide information to the public on the risk factors associated with youth suicide. When a student dies by suicide, it is not only the family that is affected, but also teachers and other students at school; more than one individual life is on the line. We are confident that student suicides can be reduced if preventive measures are comprehensive and integrated. Vulnerable youth should be better supported, especially amid more challenging family environments. Suicide prevention is not merely the responsibility of schools and parents, or the government and media, but everyone in society. We can all play a part by choosing our words wisely, showing empathy, and being alert to those around us, as well as taking care of our own mental health. The issue deserves our utmost attention, but we should approach it sensitively because of the far-reaching effect and number of lives involved. Maintaining a low profile and keeping calm is neither cold nor lacking in emotion. Paul Yip is director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong You are signed up. We think you'd also like
With long study hours and heavy workloads, it is easy to blame the education system for a recent spate of student suicides. But experts say there are more fundamental causes that parents and educators should address.   Hong Kong has been shocked by a recent series of student suicides - and this isn't the first time. In February this year, five secondary school students took their lives in the course of just 17 days. Two others were rescued from attempted suicides. Compared to other Asian countries such as South Korea and Japan, Hong Kong's suicide rate isn't unusually high. But the alarming frequency of students committing suicide since 2015 has prompted authorities to look at the struggles young people are facing. In 2016, Hong Kong's government set up a special committee to explore potential causes and create preventive measures to stop the situation from getting worse. In an investigative report published by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides in November 2016, at least 24 percent of 38 cases of primary and secondary school student suicides showed "considerable stress related to learning." Pressure to succeed Students in Hong Kong study an average of 62 hours per week In a highly competitive learning environment, many students in Hong Kong spend most of their time studying. Although official school hours are on average six hours a day, the real studying time begins after school. In a survey conducted by the Hong Kong Research Association in 2014, students in Hong Kong spend an average of 62 hours per week on studying. Apart from the six hours of learning at school, they also need more than five hours for doing homework, attending private classes and other learning activities. Private classes, or tutorial lessons, are also known as shadow education. The practice is widespread not only in Hong Kong, but also in many Asian countries such as India and South Korea. According to a 2012 report published by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), 85 percent of high school students received shadow education in Hong Kong. Private education has become so mainstream in Hong Kong that it has developed into a billion-dollar business. The ADB report finds that companies offering shadow education operate as chain stores with multiple locations and some are publicly listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. By 2016, there were more than 900 tuition centers focused on high school pupils. Extracurricular parenting  Long study hours are not the only responsibilities students are expected to fulfill outside of school. There is also an endless list of extracurricular activities, which are supposedly voluntary and leisure activities that students participate in out of own interest. But this takes on a different meaning in Hong Kong. Students are expected to participate in extracurricular activities  Whether is piano, violin, ballet, tennis or swimming, parents believe that extracurricular activities open the door to higher-ranking schools and a brighter future. In a survey conducted by UNICEF Young Envoys in 2014, 90 percent of 363 parents said they had registered their children for extracurricular activities to increase their competitiveness. Some students in these surveys had to attend 10 or more of these activities every week. "In Hong Kong, most people believe a degree from university equals one's career prospects. Those who can't enter universities would be regarded as 'losers'," Annie Cheung, co-founder of the non-profit organization Love Our Kids, told DW. Tension arises between children and parents when academic results don't meet parents' expectations, which then also leads to miscommunication, Cheung added. "Parents are spending less time with their children due to long working hours. If parents only focus on children's academic results, their children will feel they are neglected," Kate Ng from the NGO Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong told DW. The government's investigative report also found that "lack of family support and communications problems with parents contribute to youth suicide." Ng's organization, which provides counseling services to people with suicidal tendencies, said they are concerned with the recent youth suicide problem and hope to reach out to at-risk youth by extending the service hours of online chat rooms. Stigmatized emotions  Students in Hong Kong are facing extreme pressure from schools and parents and it raises the question if youth have the awareness necessary to cope with the ensuring mental health issues. "Stigma on mental disorders is a social barrier that stops people who have suicidal thoughts from seeking help," said Ng. "Raising community awareness and breaking down taboos is important to make progress in preventing suicides." According to Ng, the most effective way to prevent youth suicide is to foster self-awareness. "Students should learn to accept their limitation and appreciate themselves," said Ng. As part of an effort to prevent student suicides, Cheung from Love Our Kids said the organization is trying to educate young people about the importance of acknowledging their emotions. "They need to learn how to identify, accept and express their emotional problems," Cheung from Love Our Kids, told DW. "School education in Hong Kong only focuses on how to develop positive emotions, but we think that as human beings it is normal to have negative emotions, and the important thing is to learn how to face them," she added.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   Google+   Whatsapp   
$(document).ready(function () {
if (typeof WURFL === 'object') {
if ((WURFL.is_mobile && WURFL.complete_device_name.indexOf('Apple') !== -1) || (WURFL.is_mobile && navigator.userAgent.indexOf('Android') !== -1)) {
$('.share_whatsapp').show();
}
}
});
  Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine   Permalink http://p.dw.com/p/1JiKM For the past two months, students and teachers in Hong Kong have been holding demonstrations against Beijing's increasing control of the city's educational intuitions and academic freedom. Will the movement succeed? (07.12.2015)
  

 Amidst global insecurities in the job sector and high unemployment among graduates, China is looking for ways to beef up the education system. But many are critical, saying the Chinese system is tough enough on kids. (25.02.2010)
  

 An Australian study shows Asian schoolchildren lead their western counterparts by up to three years. Some attribute the "success in Asian education" to rote learning and social pressure. (21.02.2012)
  

 Youth unemployment remains stubbornly high around the world, the International Labor Organization said. There are around 71 million people between the ages of 15 and 29 without work, and many earn less than $3.10 a day. (26.08.2016)
  

 A new OECD study has found that a growing number of kids from non-academic families are succeeding at school in Germany. But despite recent positive reforms in the education system, there is still room for improvement. 
 A college entry exam used to gain entry to US universities was recently canceled in South Korea and Hong Kong due to an alleged breach of test materials. DW takes a look at the high academic expectations in these places. 
 DW News presents the most important news — in brief, quickly and up-to-date.  
 
© 2018 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version

 Suicides in Hong Kong Paul Yip says preventing the tragedy of a suicide isn’t a job only for the experts. Everyone can help by being available to the people around us who are going through hard times. Providing care at a critical moment saves lives Comments:    Sunday is World Suicide Prevention Day. The theme for this year is to “Take a Minute, Change a Life”. Our centre, the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, launched a one-minute-video competition to mark the day, with the support of the Community Partner Foundation. We received many enlightening entries on how we can be guardian angels to others. The winning video features a police negotiator’s work to save lives. For people contemplating suicide, the most critical period is during their last minute of life: if someone could intervene at that point, there is a chance of stopping that person. Kevin Hines, one of very few people who survived after jumping off San Francisco’s Golden Gate Bridge, shared that, in the last minute as he was wandering along the bridge before he jumped, if someone had showed some concern, he would have changed his mind. Since his miraculous survival, Hines has been championing suicide prevention activities worldwide. Suicide prevention is not just something experts can do; everyone can help. Sometimes, taking a minute to help those in need really can save a life. Suicide is still a major public health concern. There are about 800,000 suicides every year worldwide. It is the leading cause of death among teenagers. In Hong Kong, we estimate that 12.6 per 100,000 people died of suicide last year, based on the latest figures provided by the Coroner's Court. To enable a meaningful comparison of suicide rates among different countries and regions, the figures are standardised and adjusted for the age structure. After such adjustments, our age-standardised suicide rate is estimated to be 8 per 100,000 people, The global rate is 10.7 per 100,000. Since 2003, Hong Kong’s rate has been on a downward trend, from 18.6 per 100,000 in 2003 to 12.6 per 100,000 last year, notwithstanding the spate of student suicides lately. The incidence of student suicide over the past two years attracted widespread attention. There were 69 suicide cases involving young people aged 24 or below in 2016 and the suicide rate of young people aged 15-24 was about 8.3 per 100,000 in 2016. Compared to the rate of 8.4 per 100,000 in 2015, there is little difference. Suicide cases of young people aged 15 or below are rare but have increased slightly, from 0.2 per 100,000 in 2015 to 0.5 per 100,000 in 2016. To compare by gender, the suicide rates for boys and girls aged 15 or below have shown a slight increase in 2016, compared to 2015. The rate among females aged 15-24 has slightly increased, from 4 per 100,000 in 2015 to 4.9 per 100,000 in 2016. The rate among males in the same age group has slightly decreased, from 12.7 per 100,000 in 2015 to 11.6 per 100,000 in 2016.  All these rates are lower than those of many Western countries, including Finland and the US. Since the completion of a report on preventing student suicides, the government, many non-governmental organisations and schools have adopted a proactive approach to dealing with the challenge. More resources have been spent to equip teachers to detect students who need help, to create more space for students and teachers to build up the relationship, to improve the referral system, involving hospitals, social workers and teachers, for students in need. It is pleasing to see so many people who are willing to lend a hand or provide resources to invest in our young people. As a new school year begins, we are particularly concerned about the younger age groups. Students as young as 10 have died from suicide in recent years, and several studies indicate that emotional distress is common among young people. We appeal to everyone to pay continuing attention to the situation of youth suicide by taking the initiative to care and understand young people’s feelings, and urge parents and teachers to educate and help young people learn how to resolve problems and handle stress in daily life. Sometimes, some young people, especially those with low self-esteem and low social support, feel that suicide is an acceptable method of dealing with problems. Social media can be a good platform to reach out to these vulnerable members of our community. Take a minute to care for them – it will make a difference. Furthermore, the suicide rates of other age groups remained higher than that of young people, especially among older adults. We encourage individuals contemplating suicide to give themselves another minute to seek professional assistance, to walk out of the darkness towards the light. You are never alone and there are many people who are willing to walk with you through the difficulties. Seeking help is not a sign of weakness; rather, it is sign of strength to deal with the problem. As the saying goes, it takes a village to raise a child. One suicide is one too many and we must all work together to prevent the tragedies occurring. We hope every stakeholder – from teachers and social workers to you and me – will always have a minute to spare to listen to and care for the people among us who are experiencing emotional distress, and pay heed to their signals for help. Together, we can prevent suicides. Paul Yip is director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong Where to get help: ●24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: (852) 2382 0000 ●24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: (852) 2389 2222 ●Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care: (852) 2868 1211 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Hong Kong schools Some 31 per cent of primary school pupils and 40 per cent of secondary school students polled were found to be ‘vulnerable’ Comments:    One-third of primary school students and 40 per cent of Form One students are at risk of committing suicide from emotional distress brought on by changes in study environments and social circles, a report has shown. The results prompted social organisations to urge youngsters to immediately seek help from parents and teachers if they feel depressed or overstressed. Parents were also advised to show greater care and concern for the struggles of their children. The calls came as the Hong Kong Jockey Club joined hands with community organisation Caritas and volunteer agency Samaritan Befrienders to roll out three suicide prevention programmes, expected to benefit 8,000 students at 80 schools over the next three years, with 500 sessions of counselling for needy students and parents.  The survey was jointly conducted by Caritas and City University’s department of applied social sciences in September and October last year. A total of 913 students were polled, of whom 449 were Primary Five and Six students from two schools, and 464 were Form One students from four schools. Students were asked to answer 30 questions about the degree of suicidal thinking, negative thinking, depression and anxiety, and family distress they felt. They had to score each question on a scale of 0 to 30 in terms of magnitude. The questions also covered how students felt about their future, whether they perceived themselves to be a burden to others or if they disconnected from their surroundings. Hong Kong schoolboy is third teenager to die within eight days Some 31 per cent of primary school kids and 40 per cent of secondary school students were found to be “vulnerable cases” – those with a score of 11 or above. Of the 142 vulnerable primary school children, about 53 per cent said they once had suicidal thoughts, and half of them deemed themselves a burden to others. Of the 187 vulnerable Form One students, nearly 49 per cent had suicidal thoughts while an alarming 86 per cent also felt disliked by others. Nearly 75 per cent of them felt low self-worth. The university’s associate professor, Sylvia Kwok Lai Yuk-ching, said students from a single-parent family also had a higher risk of suicide as they tend to be more pessimistic. “The findings showed that changes in family status or social environment for students led to them becoming more emotionally distressed,” Kwok said. She urged parents to show more concern and greater understanding for their children. Where to get help ● 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 ● 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 Society for the Promotion of ● Hospice Care: +852 2868 1211 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Singapore The country’s school system is geared towards high achievement in exams, but the emphasis on rote learning and memorisation, combined with pressure to succeed, affects children’s social skills, health and overall happiness Comments:    Singapore’s education system is reputed for producing children who top the world rankings in standardised tests. The city state took first place in the last Pisa (global education rankings. Run by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Pisa tests, conducted every three years, are intended as a measure of problem-solving and cognition. Yet Singapore’s superiority in the rankings may be coming at an equally high price. Children in the Lion City experience high stress levels from primary school as a result of competitive pressure from schools and parents. It’s arguable whether the perfect scores produce adults who are critical thinkers or merely rote learners, and concerns have been expressed about a lack of development in behavioural and social skills. In 2015, there were a reported 27 suicides among 10- to 19-year-olds in Singapore, double that of the previous year and the highest for more than a decade, according to the Samaritans of Singapore. In May 2016, an 11-year-old boy jumped to his death from the 17th floor of a flat block, fearful of sharing his exam results with his parents. It was the first time the child had failed a subject. The problems inherent in Singapore’s education system will be familiar to Hongkongers. Both cities have large class sizes, are highly competitive, and focus on rote learning and test results, with a culture of extracurricular private tutorials. Hong Kong’s student suicide rate is also cause for concern. A report commissioned by the government, made public early this year, revealed that 71 students took their lives between 2013 and 2016. Hong Kong ranked ninth in the last Pisa tests, below Taiwan (fourth) and Macau (sixth). Howard Tan, a former Singapore primary-school teacher turned private tutor, says he has encountered parents who put undue pressure on their youngsters. “It’s too simplistic to say that the pressure comes from the system. A lot of pressure comes from parents,” he says, adding that he’s seen parents express disappointment with their children for scoring less than 90 per cent in tests. “As a teacher, I hardly push my students that way. The system necessitates that from the parents,” he says. Tan teaches eight- and nine-year-olds, and his private tuition classes wrap up at 9pm. “I have one eight-year-old student taking multiple tuition classes from multiple tutors per subject, amounting to 11 tuition sessions a week. Does she have time for anything else?” Tan says that when he taught physical education classes in primary school, he noticed that a number of children lacked motor skills. “In preschool ... they need to socialise and learn conflict resolution with other kids. Many of the children I taught didn’t know how to deal with disagreements; they would shout because they didn’t know any better,” he says. High student-to-teacher ratios are a big problem in Singaporean schools, Tan says, but pressure also stems from the practice of streaming – with pupils of the same year being segregated into different classes based on results and assessments in several key gateways. Streaming is where the Singapore system differs from Hong Kong’s. However, segregation of “bright and slow” students still happens in Hong Kong, in the form of school banding. Singapore’s compulsory education system consists of six years of primary school, four years of secondary, and between one and three years of post-secondary school. Students undergo two major exams before even leaving primary school. At the end of primary year four, pupils are tested to determine the courses they will take in English, mathematics, mother tongue, and science. At the end of primary school, they take the Primary School Leaving Examination, which determines the stream a pupil will follow in secondary education. There are four streams: Special, Express, Normal Academic, and Normal Technical. Special comprises about 10 per cent of pupils, and is an accelerated pathway to university. Fifty per cent make the Express track, which may lead directly to university or initially to junior college. Twenty per cent pursue the Normal track, leading to polytechnic institute, while the remainder fall into Normal Technical, which leads to a qualification at the Institute of Technical Education. Some Singapore parents regard streaming as beneficial for children with different learning capacities. Maida Genato, who has three children at school, says: “For the slow learners, if you teach at a faster pace, they might have a hard time adjusting, whereas for fast learners, if you slow the pace they might get bored.” Tan, however, says that with class sizes of 30 to 40 pupils, streaming will fail a lot of children.  Jamie Sisson, an education lecturer at University of South Australia, says streaming and high-stakes testing increase stress on children and parents. “[It serves] to limit opportunities for learners that later affects their opportunities in life. Humans are complex beings. It is difficult to determine at a young age what someone is capable of achieving later in life,” she says. The Singaporean concept of kiasu – a Hokkien word meaning “afraid to lose” – may explain why parents enrol their children in extracurricular tuition in the hope they will excel in test scores. Genato, a Filipino, says she’s noticed that her daughter’s ethnic Chinese classmates tend to be pushed harder. “It must be a cultural thing,” she adds. Sisson says she has observed that young adults of Chinese descent, including Singaporeans, sometimes find it hard to adapt to the university’s style of teaching. “I’m seeing students, especially from China, struggle because they’re used to memorising answers. When they come to study in Australia, they have to shift their way of thinking.” Sisson advocates a democratic, student-centred pedagogy, a teaching ethos by which students play a significant role in defining course policies, materials covered, and other aspects of schooling. “Research shows that placing high value on test scores has led to narrow views of teaching and learning,” she says. “Such practices focus on memorising facts that have been determined by others to be of worth. “If we don’t understand how things work in the context of real life, then we don’t understand, we’re just memorising. This can limit children’s opportunities to develop skills important to being innovative problem solvers we need in the future.” Sisson refers to a widely cited report by British-based business lecturer Sally Chan, titled The Chinese Learner – a question of style. Chan writes: “The popular view is that the stresses of learning and need to excel academically leave the Chinese student with little choice but to resort to rote learning of the essentials to pass the examinations ... Such learning modes are believed to dominate classroom behaviour for Chinese students in Hong Kong, China and Southeast Asia.” Although primary-school children in Singapore spend an uncommon amount of time dealing with homework and extracurricular tuition, the benefits are questionable. “There is hard evidence proving that below high school, homework does not have a positive impact on learning,” Sisson says, citing the example of Finland, which takes a holistic approach to education. Finnish students have little or no homework, and there is no private tuition culture in the country. Finland came sixth in the latest Pisa rankings, and its schools produce young adults who are critical thinkers and problem-solvers. Finnish children don’t start school until they are seven years old, and there is only one standardised test, administered in the final year of high school. School holidays are longer. Finland ranked fifth in the UN’s 2016 World Happiness Report; Singapore ranked 26th. Last year, Singapore’s Ministry of Education announced that a new scoring system would come into effect in 2021, claiming it will reduce stress by encouraging pupils to focus on their own learning rather that competition with their classmates. Currently, a student’s Primary School Leaving Examination aggregate is the sum of T-scores from all four subjects taken. T-scores indicate how well a pupil has performed relative to peers in the subjects. From 2021, pupils’ scores will no longer be benchmarked against their classmates’, the ministry says, admitting: “The way that the T-score is calculated may have also created unhealthy competition among our young children.” Roy Ngerng is a Singaporean activist, who in 2014 was found guilty of defaming Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on his sociopolitical blog, in comments about the city state’s pension fund. In an article titled ““New” PSLE Education Scoring System: Does it Change Anything?” Ngerng concludes that the change “still puts excessive focus on academic results”, and that students will actually find it harder to obtain higher scores. Ngerng suggests that “healing” the system would require a combination of reducing class sizes and the administrative workload of teachers so they can focus on the development of each child, which would in turn reduce stress levels. He also suggests a reduction in school hours. This would give teachers room for more creative activities to develop children’s critical thinking skills, he says. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
<<<<<<< HEAD
HONG KONG: Singapore’s education system is reputed for producing children who top the world rankings in standardised tests. In 2015, the city state took first place in the Pisa (Programme for International Student Assessment) rankings – maths, reading and science tests for 15-year-olds in 72 countries and regions. Run by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Pisa tests, conducted every three years, are intended as a measure of problem-solving and cognition. Yet Singapore’s superiority in the rankings may be coming at an equally high price. Children in the Lion City experience high stress levels from primary school as a result of competitive pressure from schools and parents. It’s arguable whether the perfect scores produce adults who are critical thinkers or merely rote learners, and concerns have been expressed about a lack of development in behavioural and social skills. In 2015, there were a reported 27 suicides among 10- to 19-year-olds in Singapore, double that of the previous year. In May 2016, an 11-year-old boy jumped to his death from the 17th floor of a flat block, fearful of sharing his exam results with his parents. It was the first time the child had failed a subject. The problems inherent in Singapore’s education system will be familiar to Hong Kongers. Both cities have large class sizes, are highly competitive, and focus on rote learning and test results, with a culture of extracurricular private tutorials. Hong Kong’s student suicide rate is also cause for concern. A report commissioned by the government, made public early this year, revealed that 71 students took their lives between 2013 and 2016. Hong Kong ranked ninth in the last Pisa tests, below Taiwan (fourth) and Macau (sixth).   Howard Tan, a former Singapore primary-school teacher turned private tutor, says he has encountered parents who put undue pressure on their youngsters. “It’s too simplistic to say that the pressure comes from the system. A lot of pressure comes from parents,” he says, adding that he’s seen parents express disappointment with their children for scoring less than 90 per cent in tests. “As a teacher, I hardly push my students that way. The system necessitates that from the parents,” he says. Tan teaches 8- and 9-year-olds, and his private tuition classes wrap up at 9pm. “I have one 8-year-old student taking multiple tuition classes from multiple tutors per subject, amounting to 11 tuition sessions a week. Does she have time for anything else?” Tan says that when he taught physical education classes in primary school, he noticed that a number of children lacked motor skills. “In preschool ... they need to socialise and learn conflict resolution with other kids. Many of the children I taught didn’t know how to deal with disagreements; they would shout because they didn’t know any better,” he says. High student-to-teacher ratios are a big problem in Singaporean schools, Tan says, but pressure also stems from the practice of streaming – with pupils of the same year being segregated into different classes based on results and assessments in several key gateways. Streaming is where the Singapore system differs from Hong Kong’s. However, segregation of “bright and slow” students still happens in Hong Kong, in the form of school banding. Singapore’s compulsory education system consists of six years of primary school, four years of secondary, and between one and three years of post-secondary school. Students undergo two major exams before even leaving primary school. At the end of primary year four, pupils are tested to determine the courses they will take in English, Mathematics, mother tongue, and Science. At the end of primary school, they take the Primary School Leaving Examination, which determines the stream a pupil will follow in secondary education. There are four streams: Special, Express, Normal Academic, and Normal Technical. Special comprises about 10 per cent of pupils, and is an acc  elerated pathway to university. Fifty per cent make the Express track, which may lead directly to university or initially to junior college. Twenty per cent pursue the Normal track, leading to polytechnic institute, while the remainder fall into Normal Technical, which leads to a qualification at the Institute of Technical Education. Some Singapore parents regard streaming as beneficial for children with different learning capacities. Maida Genato, who has three children at school, says: “For the slow learners, if you teach at a faster pace, they might have a hard time adjusting, whereas for fast learners, if you slow the pace they might get bored.” Tan, however, says that with class sizes of 30 to 40 pupils, streaming will fail a lot of children. Jamie Sisson, an education lecturer at University of South Australia, says streaming and high-stakes testing increase stress on children and parents. “[It serves] to limit opportunities for learners that later affects their opportunities in life. Humans are complex beings. It is difficult to determine at a young age what someone is capable of achieving later in life,” she says. The Singaporean concept of kiasu – a Hokkien word meaning “afraid to lose” – may explain why parents enrol their children in extracurricular tuition in the hope they will excel in test scores. Genato, a Filipino, says she’s noticed that her daughter’s ethnic Chinese classmates tend to be pushed harder. “It must be a cultural thing,” she adds. Sisson says she has observed that young adults of Chinese descent, including Singaporeans, sometimes find it hard to adapt to the university’s style of teaching. “I’m seeing students, especially from China, struggle because they’re used to memorising answers. When they come to study in Australia, they have to shift their way of thinking.” Sisson advocates a democratic, student-centred pedagogy, a teaching ethos by which students play a significant role in defining course policies, materials covered, and other aspects of schooling. “Research shows that placing high value on test scores has led to narrow views of teaching and learning,” she says. “Such practices focus on memorising facts that have been determined by others to be of worth. “If we don’t understand how things work in the context of real life, then we don’t understand, we’re just memorising. This can limit children’s opportunities to develop skills important to being innovative problem solvers we need in the future.” Sisson refers to a widely cited report by British-based business lecturer Sally Chan, titled The Chinese Learner – a question of style. Chan writes: “The popular view is that the stresses of learning and need to excel academically leave the Chinese student with little choice but to resort to rote learning of the essentials to pass the examinations ... Such learning modes are believed to dominate classroom behaviour for Chinese students in Hong Kong, China and Southeast Asia.” Although primary-school children in Singapore spend an uncommon amount of time dealing with homework and extracurricular tuition, the benefits are questionable. “There is hard evidence proving that below high school, homework does not have a positive impact on learning,” Sisson says, citing the example of Finland, which takes a holistic approach to education. Finnish students have little or no homework, and there is no private tuition culture in the country. Finland came sixth in the latest Pisa rankings, and its schools produce young adults who are critical thinkers and problem-solvers. Finnish children don’t start school until they are seven years old, and there is only one standardised test, administered in the final year of high school. School holidays are longer. Finland ranked fifth in the UN’s 2016 World Happiness Report; Singapore ranked 26th. Last year, Singapore’s Ministry of Education announced that a new scoring system would come into effect in 2021, claiming it will reduce stress by encouraging pupils to focus on their own learning rather that competition with their classmates. Currently, a student’s Primary  School Leaving Examination aggregate is the sum of T-scores from all four subjects taken. T-scores indicate how well a pupil has performed relative to peers in the subjects. From 2021, pupils’ scores will no longer be benchmarked against their classmates’, the ministry says, admitting: “The way that the T-score is calculated may have also created unhealthy competition among our young children.” Roy Ngerng is a Singaporean activist, who in 2014 was found guilty of defaming Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on his sociopolitical blog, in comments about the city state’s pension fund. In an article titled “‘New’ PSLE Education Scoring System: Does it Change Anything?” Ngerng concludes that the change “still puts excessive focus on academic results”, and that students will actually find it harder to obtain higher scores. Ngerng suggests that “healing” the system would require a combination of reducing class sizes and the administrative workload of teachers so they can focus on the development of each child, which would in turn reduce stress levels. He also suggests a reduction in school hours. This would give teachers room for more creative activities to develop children’s critical thinking skills, he says. -- SCMP  To read the original article, go here: http://www.scmp.com/lifestyle/families/article/2111822/downsides-singapo... 2017 © New Straits Times.New Straits Times Press (M) Berhad (4485-H).All Rights Reserved.
=======
>>>>>>> dac151d6166d58e5751b922e046fbf2663ae01db
 City Weekend Lawmaker and social workers claim cultural emphasis on success means young people’s well-being is not being looked after in a system needing an overhaul Comments:    Childhood in Hong Kong seems more functional than happy, thanks to a high-pressured, exam-oriented education system pushing young people to the breaking point and triggering a decline in their mental health for years, a lawmaker claims. The alarming trend of tens of thousands of children feeling discontent with their lives should serve as a wake-up call to policymakers that systemic changes are needed, several working with the city’s young people urge. Their remarks come after a recent study suggests one out of every seven primary school pupils in Hong Kong has shown signs of depression, with academic pressure the main factor. “The idea of having a happy childhood in Hong Kong is fading,” says Shiu Ka-chun, who represents the social welfare sector in the Legislative Council. “To the contrary, most people prefer a functional childhood in which children shouldn’t play but gear up for their future through rote learning and excessive participation in specialised classes.” The study released last week by charity Baptist Oi Kwan Social Service polled 1,301 Primary Three to Primary Six pupils from January to March this year. It found 13.2 per cent, or one in seven pupils, showed signs of depression. Some 9.7 per cent have been suffering severe depression and require clinical treatment, according to the study. The charity estimates some 33,000 pupils in Hong Kong could be struggling with the mood disorder. Esther Tang Man-hang, who works in the charity’s mental wellness services for children, describes the rate as “alarming”. She claims if the situation does not change in the near future a higher proportion of young people will become debilitated in their future work and social life, posing “an enormous social cost”. “We have seen adolescents referred to our service when they already had to quit school due to depression and an inability to face stress or even became suicidal,” she says. “The journey of recovery will be longer if the mental condition has become more deep-seated with delayed intervention.” But University of Hong Kong professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, who last year was appointed head of the Education Bureau’s committee on student suicide prevention as the number of cases spiked in the city, expressed scepticism over the Baptist study. He is “not sure how much children know about depression”.  Statistics from the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, where Yip serves as director, reveal 69 young people aged under 24 took their lives last year – four more than in 2015. But he characterises children in Hong Kong as “generally quite happy”. He notes that, apart from academic pressure, several other factors such as family problems and living conditions affect children’s mental health. Changing the structure Several studies in the past few years have suggested the city’s children suffer a decline in their mental health. In June this year, a report by the Hong Kong Paediatric Society and the Hong Kong Paediatric Foundation claimed the problem had persisted for decades, with parents being pushed to the breaking point. Tang says parents’ mental health has become “more worrying” than in the past and their stress is likely to be felt by their children. She thinks parents tend now to have higher expectations for themselves to provide the best for their children, and they see their children’s performance as defining how good they are as parents. In addition, parents feel the strain of having to juggle long working hours. “Parents’ anxiety to fulfil perceived expectations in society is often internally or unintentionally translated as stress in children,” she adds. But Shiu, who serves as deputy chairman of Legco’s subcommittee on children’s rights, says it is unfair to pin all the blame on parents when they face few choices in a culture that emphasises rearing children to excel and be winners given the high-pressure local education system.  “It’s easy to blame parents, but let’s not forget parents are living within a social structure,” he explains. “It’s a problem in the structure.” The lawmaker says he has seen the government try to promote the idea of happy learning but eventually failing to put the ideas into practice. Citing a government slogan in the early 2000s that learning was about “more than scoring”, Shiu says: “I agree with its philosophy … But it’s clear the government just talked the talk.” Carole Li Chi-kwan, a clinical psychologist for over 14 years, says she sees younger patients than in past few years. The youngest she has treated is a four-year-old girl. Like many, Li identifies multiple factors contributing to the decline in children’s mental health in Hong Kong. She understands that studies are getting more ambitious, and hopes the government conducts a review of the situation. “I understand that some kindergarten pupils are learning a Primary One syllabus. And those studying Primary One are learning a syllabus meant for Primary Two or Three,” she notes. “Children in Hong Kong have to deal with a lot of homework but don’t have time to play, sleep or just do nothing.” Commission on children Last month during her first policy address, the city’s leader, Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, announced her administration would set up a Commission on Children next year to “focus on children’s issues as they grow”. The preparatory committee is being chaired by Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung Kin-chung. Shiu suggests the panel look into issues that not only affect children directly, but also their parents, such as long working hours, which he called a “very important factor” in their well-being. “Children’s welfare is not only reflected in children’s policies,” he says. For example, Shiu notes Hong Kong has yet to cap the maximum number of working hours, despite labour unions calling for a standard, regulated working week of 44 hours. “If we don’t cap the working hours at a certain rate, then working parents will have less time to spend with their family. And, since parents can’t spend quality time with their children, their parenting styles will easily be based on strict disciplinary rules that children are not happy with.”  Paediatric Foundation secretary Dr Lilian Wong Hiu-lei claims the city’s lack of a health policy for children has allowed their mental health to decline for years. She is not confident the new commission will improve children’s welfare, observing it has no legal power to look into children’s issues, unlike comparable bodies in Britain and Australia. “All the government’s actions are reactive and remedial to the ad hoc children’s health problems,” the paediatrician says. “When the problems are temporarily relieved, no more follow-up measures are taken.” Wong points to the rising numbers of youth suicides as an example of officials’ inadequate response, slamming them for failing to pinpoint causes. Wong says academic stress is one cause, adding: “The government is not interested in finding the cause nor providing a healthy environment for our children.” In her view, a healthy environment would be underpinned by an education policy that avoids overemphasis on academic performance or exam-oriented studying. But Shiu laments that boosting the next generation’s sense of national identity seems to be the government’s top priority for children at the moment. “They might love our county in the future,” he says of the children. “But they might not be happy.” You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Hong Kong schools Concern group says leaving cases to schools to investigate is a ‘conflict of interest’ Comments:    A concern group on youth suicide prevention in Hong Kong urged the government on Saturday to set up an independent body to investigate complaints of bullying, criticising authorities for their passive stance. The Citizens’ Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide, formed by several groups of parents, teachers and social workers, said a recent alleged bullying incident showed that schools could not resolve such matters themselves. The alliance’s calls came amid a separate campaign on the same day by medical students from the University of Hong Kong to raise awareness of suicide risks among the city’s youth. The actions of both groups were sparked by a case on November 17, when a mother told police her son was constantly bullied at school and another pupil had forced a pencil eraser tip into the boy’s ear. Teachers at the Tuen Mun school could not substantiate the woman’s claims, but the boy’s parents rejected their findings and vowed to pull him out of the school. “There is a conflict of interest when schools handle their own bullying complaints. From a school’s standpoint, they would want to play down such incidents,” alliance member Simon Hung Ling-fai said. They suggested that the Education Bureau set up an appeal mechanism for schools and an independent body should be in charge of looking into such incidents. The bureau earlier said they had guidelines and training for schools and teachers on how to handle such incidents, and that they would study the investigation reports of schools, offering help if necessary. Education lawmaker Ip Kin-yuen said the bureau had the “utmost responsibility” when it came to dealing with such issues and that they had the power to investigate. Citing official figures, Ip said there was an average of 200 bullying incidents from schools across the city each year, but the figure had dropped to about 100 cases last year. Findings from the Programme for International Student Assessment (Pisa), released this year, found that Hong Kong pupils reported being threatened and physically bullied at school more than the average rate for all 52 countries and cities surveyed. Pisa is a worldwide study conducted every three years by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on member countries and cities. Some 20 per cent of 1,600 Hong Kong pupils surveyed reported that they had been hit or pushed around by others in school at least once, compared to the average of 11.9 per cent. The rate was the fifth highest among all OECD countries and cities. Some 15 per cent of students in Hong Kong reported getting verbal threats from other pupils, according to the report. The rate put the city in the top 13 out of 52 places assessed. Citizens’ Alliance for Prevention of Youth Suicide said bullying often went undetected in schools and that reported cases were “only the tip of the iceberg”. “Each school should set up an anti-bullying group led by a teacher and a social worker to constantly monitor the situation,” alliance member Coco Wong, who is also the founder of non-profit group Anti-bullying in Schools, said. “When any pupil needs help, he or she can go to this group so the problem can be nipped in the bud before it progresses to something more serious like an attempted suicide.” Wong, whose daughter was once a victim of name-calling and being ostracised in school, said support should not only be given to victims, but also to bullies who might need help with emotional or social problems. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Education Comments:    We refer to the article by Philip Yeung (“Unruly students in Hong Kong are the product of a failed education system devoid of rich reading”, January 25). One cannot help but consider Alexandre Dumas’ witticism when approaching Mr Yeung’s article: “All generalisations are dangerous. Even this one.” Yeung proposes that “rich reading” may mend misguided angry protesters and avert student suicides, byproducts of an absent moral compass. Yet, beyond reforming the “failed education system”, his proposition is ultimately blindsided by reductionism and insensitivity. Consider Yeung’s use of derogatory terms. From describing the teachings of the Basic Law as “dull” and “meaningless”, assuming Hong Kong teachers “are not readers” and labelling them “an oxymoron”, to calling the current system “pathetic” and “unworthy to be called an education”, Yeung seems to offer a very singular idea of how one should “be” in his subtext, and his opaque remarks are ironically authoritarian. Asserting that student suicides could be prevented by “escapist reading”, Yeung ignores deeper psychological, societal, and cultural elements. It is extremely insensitive of him to use the recent surge in student suicides to advance his premise of promoting “rich reading”, which he not once defines. We agree with him on the dangers of rote learning, in so far as dysfunctionalities of a system “consumed by academic performance” is concerned, evidenced by how societies with low suicide rates are said to have a status system honouring intrinsic values over achievement. However, Yeung appears to totally disregard formidable underlying mental illnesses, and his contentedness in making Hong Kong’s flawed education system a scapegoat for student suicides is clearly unacceptable. All generations have struggled with working out their own balance of “exploration-openness and stability-commitment” – as noted psychologist D.J. Levinson put it – in their pre-adult lives, and Yeung seems comfortable attributing this internal struggle to the problems of our education system in isolation. Thus, to suggest that “reading” is a solution to this multi-faceted problem is rather frivolous. Pre- and post-1997 Hong Kong produced two very different milieus, which entailed an extended and complex metaphysical struggle. It is never just about compulsory Mandarin exams. When new clashes with old, neither side should dismiss the other’s perspectives too readily. In these trying times, rather than pointing fingers and oversimplifying disputes among populations of opposing ideologies, one should try to promote dialogue, rather than impart diagnoses. Wingho Chan, Tsim Sha Tsui, and Kevin Chan, Mid-Levels You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Comments:    Two studies have shown that public concerns about depression and suicides among students at local schools are justified (“Half of 3,441 Hong Kong students polled show signs of depression”, September 27). One of the studies surveyed 3,441 secondary school pupils and tertiary students in Hong Kong, and found half of them showed signs of depression. Also, 40 per cent complained about stress in the new school term. These surveys highlight the fact that students suffer from depression because of this prevalent issue of stress. This is clearly a cause for concern, because some youngsters have felt under so much pressure that they have taken their own lives. While it is right for citizens to be worried about this trend, we have to ascertain what the contributing factors are for such high rates of depression among the younger generation. Many of these young people are not sufficiently prepared for the challenges they will face in a new school year. They might struggle to do well academically and if they are not given the help they need, then it is relatively easy for them to become depressed. The pressure they feel is often exacerbated by their workload. If the teacher always hands out a lot of assignments, students will have to do a substantial amount of homework in the evenings and at weekends. It is understandable that they will then feel pressure and be depressed, facing hours of homework after an already long school day. And things can be worse for them if their parents have unrealistic expectations of what they can achieve, and they are unable to get the marks that are expected of them. All stakeholders must recognise that there is a problem with the local education system. Parents, teachers and students need to look at the main reasons behind so many youngsters suffering psychological problems, and think about the best way to deal with these issues so that young people can be happier in their school lives. Jessie Leung Cheuk-yau, Kowloon Tong You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Analysis  Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events   The two boys put on their school uniforms, left home and then killed themselves. A 15-year-old leapt to his death at Times Square in Hong Kong's Causeway Bay; days before, he told his parents that he was unhappy at school. This month, at least five students in Hong Kong took their own lives. Another was stopped by authorities. She told her family that school pressures were just too overwhelming. She is 12. It's the latest in a rash of suicides by students in Hong Kong. Thirty-five students took their own lives in 2016; one was just 11 years old. Between 2010 and 2014, Hong Kong saw an average of 23 student suicides a year, according to the University of Hong Kong’s Center for Suicide Research and Prevention. Hong Kong's education system is famously cutthroat, and experts compare it to a pressure cooker. The government's Territory-wide System Assessment system tests students regularly starting in third grade. Schools are judged on their kids' scores. Students are forced to compete for limited spots in the country's university system. At a hearing on the territory's education system, one fourth-grader compared going to school to going to prison. “In the classroom, I was not allowed to move, drink water, eat, go to the toilet, or talk,” Chan Yu-ling said at the hearing. “The teachers spent little time teaching. We spent most of our time doing mock exams.” Cheung Siu-chung, a secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union, told Quartz that the suicides are “the accumulative effect of the education system.” “Under this education system, students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he said. “How can you expect students to not feel pressure?” Children are now starting university earlier, thanks to a 2012 shift in the education system that sends students to college a year earlier. “Students are entering university at a younger age. They might not be mature and prepared enough to deal with challenges and lack the closer network present in secondary school, for example,” one expert told the South China Morning Post. Ten of the 22 students who committed suicide since the start of the current academic year were in university. (Between 2010 and 2014, the average was two.) Experts say, too, that young children spend too much time online. “This generation grew up with the Internet. Although they are more connected, they also tend to look only at things they like. They might not understand complicated or different views on an issue. For anyone who sees things not fitting their taste, they could simply ‘unfriend’ them,” Lee Sing, a professor of psychiatry at Chinese University, told the South China Morning Post. Less time with family, too, might be contributing to the problem. One expert noted that in most families, both parents work outside the home, leaving them with less time to spend with their families. The Hong Kong Education Bureau is taking action. It announced new measures to combat the problem, including improved student counseling in schools, more seminars to alert teachers and parents to warning signs and a committee to research long-term fixes. Right now, most secondary schools have at least one social worker. But most secondary schools have more than 1,000 students, so their ability to interact one-on-one with children is limited.
Follow us on Follow us on 0 Share Topic Suicides in Hong Kong With Generation Z suicides on the rise, social enterprise One Ten is using exercise to build mental, physical and emotional strength By Kylie Knott 0 Share As a mother of three, Hongkonger Belinda Koo is well acquainted with the pressures young adults face. That’s why she founded One Ten, a social enterprise that aims to empower members of Generation Z by building mental, physical and emotional strength in the young through exercise. “I want to ensure future generations are equipped with the tools to combat pain points in their life: academic stress, peer pressure, body image, to name a few,” fitness fanatic Koo says.  Hong Kong’s youth can use the support. Last month, the Hong Kong Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention estimated that the suicide rate for people aged between 15 and 24 was 8.9 per 100,000 in 2016. That’s up from 8.4 per 100,000 the year before. According to the coroner’s court, it said, 69 people under the age of 24 took their own lives last year. Suicides among Hong Kong children accounted for quarter of unnatural deaths in 2012 and 2013 One Ten runs spin and yoga classes for the 14-22 age group at venues across Hong Kong, with hand-picked instructors trained to help young people. Outdoor running, hiking and bouldering are promised soon. “With the launch of One Ten, I hope youngsters will embrace a life of joy and positivity with optimal health, and build the competence and courage that will support them to overcome challenges and become tomorrow’s leaders,” Koo says.  Among One Ten’s advocates is student Justin Wei, 19, who says he was never good at sports or interested in fit­ness, instead focusing on his studies. “But two years ago, I began exercising – I wanted to be good at some­thing other than academics. Spinning has helped me find my truth – who I am and what I believe in. It’s important to find your voice in society and use it to bring good into the world.” Student Charlotte Chan, 18, says, “One Ten enables me to combine my health and wellness with community service through Time Auction,” referring to a colla­boration with the charity that encourages volunteers. For more information on cost and venues, visit weareoneten.org. Your weekly dose of Post Magazine direct to your inbox. By registering to our newsletter you agree to our T&C; and Privacy Policy By registering to our newsletter you agree to our T&C; and Privacy Policy Trending topics Newsletter Sign-up Your weekly dose of Post Magazine direct to your inbox. By registering to our newsletter you agree to our T&C; and Privacy Policy Latest Issue Lifestyle Culture Copyright © 2018 South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Report by paediatric groups points to pressure to perform well at school as major issue, pushing some parents to the brink of emotional breakdown Comments:    Children in Hong Kong have suffered a worrying decline in their mental health over the past decade and parents are being pushed to breaking point as a result, a new report suggests. The city’s young people are increasingly unhappy after enduring two decades of “ineffective ad hoc and remedial government strategies” on youth mental health, according to a damning report by the Hong Kong Paediatric Society and the Hong Kong Paediatric Foundation released on Sunday. “There was no designated section for children in the [chief executive] policy addresses, not to mention a comprehensive child health policy and the children’s commission,” foundation chairman Dr Chan Chok-wan said. All work and no play: why more Hong Kong children are having mental health problems The report includes results of a survey on stress facing children and parents as well as an analysis of children’s mental health. It says the government has failed to tackle the “root causes” of declining mental health among young people, and this has consequently resulted in a “vicious circle” in which parents are pushed to the brink of emotional breakdowns.  According to the survey that polled 1,300 parents of kindergarten and primary students between May and June, almost two-thirds of parents cited pressure to perform well academically as the most common source of stress for children. Half of parents admitted their own expectations of their children were also causing them significant stress. Parents in turn reported they became increasingly stressed about their child’s academic performance as they transitioned from kindergarten to primary school. About 70 per cent said they were suffering from emotional problems as a result of childcare pressures.  Almost two thirds of parents surveyed also reported suffering from insomnia caused by childcare-related stress. A total of 88 per cent of Hong Kong parents said they received inadequate government support. According to official statistics cited in the report, the number of children and adolescents being treated for mental illness in public hospitals has increased by more than 50 per cent from 18,900 in 2011-12 to 28,800 in 2015-16. More young Hongkongers seek treatment for mental health problems, figures show The report also found that the annual number of youth suicides in the city, which has fluctuated over the last two decades, tended to increase shortly after any temporary government measures to tackle the problem were stopped. The average annual number of student suicides has been about 23 since 2010, according to figures from the University of Hong Kong’s Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. Chok criticised Hong Kong’s last three chief executives for “not being effective nor directional” on child welfare policies to improve the situation, suggesting current Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying was the worst. Repeating calls for the government to introduce a dedicated children’s commission to oversee child welfare, he said the system needed to be “streamlined” to make it “harmonious”. “I think they have not done it until now because it would put government policy under stricter guidelines,” he said. “There is also a perceived manpower constraint. But the children’s commission would be the one which would deal with all these affairs. The money used would be much better utilised. That in the long run is the best way to handle this issue.” If you are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
<<<<<<< HEAD
Two pediatric groups are urging the government to tackle problems in Hong Kong’s mental health policy for children and youths, saying it has been “seriously deficient” for 20 years. The Hong Kong Paediatric Society and the Hong Kong Paediatric Foundation said the government has not been doing enough to help people deal with pressure, as evidenced by the high suicide rate, the Hong Kong Economic Journal reports. They said the government’s mental health policy does not have sufficient resources, has an unequal distribution of resources and lacks focus and long-term planning. Most records are either outdated or incomplete, the groups said in a report released Sunday.  For example, the growth chart that helps the government determine if children are growing and developing properly has not been revised since 1993. Such revision should have been done every five to 10 years, the report said. The latest study on mental health among youths was conducted in 2008 and has never been updated since. Foundation chairman Chan Chok-wan, criticized the government for lacking consistent measures to push down the suicide rate. Chan blamed former chief executive Tung Chee-hwa and his successors Donald Tsang and Leung Chun-ying for having failed to devise a mental health policy dedicated to children. Dr. Lilian Wong Hiu-lei, secretary general of the foundation, said that school performance has long been a major source of young people’s stress. A survey conducted between May and June by the two groups on 1,327 parents and children in kindergarten and primary schools shows the average score of pressure faced by kindergarten pupils was at 3.6 on a scale of zero to 10, which is quite high. For primary school students, it was 5.8, with the main reason being worries about school performance. Meanwhile, nine in 10 parents have stress symptoms including short temper, emotional distress and insomnia. Seven in 10 primary schoolchildren and their parents who responded to the survey said academic performance is the main source of stress. The groups suggested the government establish an agency focused on children’s affairs and allow it operate independently. [Chinese version 中文版] - Contact us at [email protected] TL/AC/RA 
=======
Two pediatric groups are urging the government to tackle problems in Hong Kong’s mental health policy for children and youths, saying it has been “seriously deficient” for 20 years. The Hong Kong Paediatric Society and the Hong Kong Paediatric Foundation said the government has not been doing enough to help people deal with pressure, as evidenced by the high suicide rate, the Hong Kong Economic Journal reports. They said the government’s mental health policy does not have sufficient resources, has an unequal distribution of resources and lacks focus and long-term planning. Most records are either outdated or incomplete, the groups said in a report released Sunday.  For example, the growth chart that helps the government determine if children are growing and developing properly has not been revised since 1993. Such revision should have been done every five to 10 years, the report said. The latest study on mental health among youths was conducted in 2008 and has never been updated since. Foundation chairman Chan Chok-wan, criticized the government for lacking consistent measures to push down the suicide rate. Chan blamed former chief executive Tung Chee-hwa and his successors Donald Tsang and Leung Chun-ying for having failed to devise a mental health policy dedicated to children. Dr. Lilian Wong Hiu-lei, secretary general of the foundation, said that school performance has long been a major source of young people’s stress. A survey conducted between May and June by the two groups on 1,327 parents and children in kindergarten and primary schools shows the average score of pressure faced by kindergarten pupils was at 3.6 on a scale of zero to 10, which is quite high. For primary school students, it was 5.8, with the main reason being worries about school performance. Meanwhile, nine in 10 parents have stress symptoms including short temper, emotional distress and insomnia. Seven in 10 primary schoolchildren and their parents who responded to the survey said academic performance is the main source of stress. The groups suggested the government establish an agency focused on children’s affairs and allow it operate independently. [Chinese version 中文版] - Contact us at [email protected] TL/AC/RA 
“Going to school was like going to prison.” Chan Yu-ling, a fourth grade primary school student in Hong Kong, gave a powerful testimony (video) last month when the city’s legislature convened a special session to address the rising number of student suicides, which has called attention to the cutthroat local school system. “In the classroom, I was not allowed to move, drink water, eat, go to the toilet, or talk,” said Chan, whose parents eventually removed her from the local school system and placed her in an international school. “The teachers spent little time teaching. We spent most of our time doing mock exams.” Since the 2015 school year began, Hong Kong students have been taking their lives with alarming frequency. Thirty-five students committed suicide in 2016. This month alone, three students leaped to their deaths in a little over a week’s time, two of the cases within 24 hours of each other. Update: On Feb. 22, another 14-year-old boy leapt to his death after his parents accused him of spending too much time on video games (link in Chinese). Together, five students have committed suicide this month. The toll of academic stress on students’ mental health is a common story throughout Asia, where families place high value on grades, education systems are often centered around exams, and in some countries test scores alone can determine whether students are admitted to university. In South Korea, the leading cause of death for those between 15 and 24 is suicide. Last year, Singapore’s teenage suicide rate reached a 15-year high. In India, a village known as the country’s test prep capital has seen dozens of suicides in recent years. In Hong Kong, the spate of suicides has led the government to establish a Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides last year. After reviewing 71 suicidal cases (pdf, p.15) over the past three years, the committee in November called for a review of the education system (p.102). A local concern group of psychologists last year urged students to sign a “no-suicide contract” proposed by the government, which asked students to “promise not to harm myself or commit suicide.” Cheung Siu-chung, a secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union, said that the rash of suicides “is the accumulative effect of the education system.” “Under this education system, students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he says. “How can you expect students to not feel pressure?” Hong Kong’s emphasis on testing starts from an early age for students in the local school system. The government-led Territory-wide System Assessment (TSA), a system closely connected to local school performance evaluations, is embedded through the primary and secondary school system. Starting in the third grade of primary school, students take the first TSA, which tests them on subjects of math, English, and Chinese. In post-secondary school, students take the Diploma of Secondary Education Examination to compete for a limited number of spots at eight Hong Kong universities. The heavily score-driven culture has raised wrath among parents. In 2015, nearly 40,000 (link in Chinese) parents signed a petition urging the government to cancel the TSA for third graders. The local education authority opted instead to replace the TSA with new testing requirements called Basic Competency Assessments (BCA), which Eddie Ng, secretary for the education bureau (link in Chinese), said has helped ease the excessive drilling. But some don’t see much difference between the BCA and TSA. “The authority just changed the name,” says Hilda Cheung, the mother of a third grade student and organizer of a local parent focus group. “I’m very dissatisfied with Hong Kong’s education system… the test-driven culture in Hong Kong schools has very deep roots.” Chan’s mother said she often had to stay up late into the night helping her daughter do her test prep, so that the fourth-grader could have an hour to play everyday. Local lawmaker Alvin Yeung also questions the education system. “I just want to ask Ng if you can sleep well at night,” he wrote (link in Chinese) in a Feb. 8 Facebook post. In it, he shared an email from a secondary school pupil who talked about how Hong Kong students were “force fed” education. “Everyone, including the government, parents, teachers, and even all of society, has put great value on scores in the education system,” the student wrote. “I wouldn’t deny that scores are important, but they don’t represent everything about a person.”
A 15-year-old secondary school student has taken his own life on Sunday morning. He was the third to die in four attempted suicides by Hong Kong students within eight days. The boy died at Kam Tai Court, a public housing estate in Ma On Shan around 9am on Sunday. Kam Tai Court. Photo: Chong Fat via Wikicommons. HK01 reported that his suicide may be related to worries over academic grades, as his secondary school was about to announce results. Last Wednesday morning, a 12-year-old student attempted to take her own life at Lower Wong Tai Sin Estate, also reportedly due to academic pressure. She was prevented from doing so by firefighters and policemen. The latest incidents follow two student deaths from suicide immediately after the end of the Chinese New Year holidays. A 16-year-old died on February 5 in Ma On Shan, while a 13-year-old died on February 6 in Tsing Yi. Kam Tai Court on Sunday. Photo: Apple Daily. 35 cases of student suicide were reported last year. If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. The Hong Kong Society of Counseling and Psychology provides a WhatsApp hotline in English and Chinese: 6218 1084.  Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Government considers recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after spate of student suicides last year Comments:    A schoolboy has died after falling from the rooftop of an apartment building in Ma On Shan, the third Hong Kong teenager to die in such circumstances within eight days. The 15-year-old fell from Kam Pong House in Kam Tai Court on Ning Tai Road at about 10am on Sunday. Police officers were called to the scene by a security guard working at Kam Pong House. They found the boy collapsed on the ground and soon after confirmed he had died. A police spokeswoman said initial investigations had found “no suspicious circumstances”, adding they had yet to find any suicide note. Youth suicide: Relationship problems involved in seven out of 10 deaths in Hong Kong The boy’s death follows those of two other schoolchildren over the Lunar New Year holiday. On February 6, a 13-year-old schoolgirl was found dead after falling from a block in Cheung Hong Estate in Tsing Yi, while a 16-year-old schoolboy died after falling from Lee On Estate in Ma On Shan just one day earlier. The girl left a suicide note before she fell, prompting further concerns from mental health campaigners over the academic intensity of the schooling system. The Education Bureau is considering recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after a spate of student suicides last year. They include looking at ways for schools to provide better mental health support to students, as well as suggesting they work harder to promote students’ non-academic achievements. There have been more than 70 student suicides since 2013. When the government-commissioned report was discussed in the Legislative Council last month, it was claimed there was no link between the government’s education system and the number of student suicides, despite some students comparing schools to prisons. Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai, a University of Hong Kong academic who chairs the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, said a series of factors were usually involved in each case, and urged society to provide support and help by taking into account the role of different stakeholders. “Apart from exams and results, could schoolchildren be anxious after returning from a long holiday?” he suggested. “Schools should also be extra careful in detecting any abnormal behaviour among students.” Yip said he would also follow up on the recommendations submitted to the Education Bureau in November. Asked about the media’s role in aiding the copycat effect, the professor said coverage this year had become much more restrained compared to last year. “We’re not trying to sweep the issue under the carpet, but I hope the media will avoid sensationalising their reports.” If you are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
A 15-year-old secondary student plunged to his death on Sunday in Ma On Shan, the third such case in eight days. The boy is believed to have jumped off the roof of Kam Pong House in Kam Tai Court around 10 a.m., am730 reports.. Police said the victim might have committed suicide due to pressure from schoolwork. He was studying at a Band 1 secondary school in Ma On Shan which was about to hand out report cards, according to Apple Daily. The victim texted his parents that he wanted to kill himself at around 9 a.m. on Sunday but they could not locate him. The incident was the latest in a string of deaths by young students. A 16-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl fell to their deaths on Feb. 5 and 6, respectively, while a 12-year-old girl was saved by firemen when she tried to jump off a building in Wong Tai Sin on Feb. 8. Paul Yip from the University of Hong Kong Center for Suicide Research and Prevention said the incidents could be related to pressure from studies. He said the victims also might have been having emotional problems or poor interpersonal relationships. Hsu Siu-man, supervisor of the Youth Wellness Centers of the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups, said students could be copying suicides from previous cases. People should talk to others when they feel they are under pressure, Hsu said, adding that academic results are only part of a person’s life. She said parents should also pay close attention to any abnormal behavior by their children. EJ Insight supports efforts to help people deal with depression and related issues. Here is the 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline of The Samaritans: +852 2896 0000 (or email [email protected]). - Contact us at [email protected] EL/AC/RA 
 Student union defends free speech as Education University tries to find pair caught on camera sending ‘congratulations’ to grieving undersecretary Comments:    Hong Kong’s leader headed a chorus of condemnation and outrage on Friday over an “extremely callous” and “cold blooded” message displayed on the Education University campus, taunting a top education official over the suicide of her eldest son. “The remarks are entirely disrespectful, against the moral values of society and cold-blooded,” Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor said, as the controversy overtook the ongoing row over banners and posters advocating independence for Hong Kong appearing on university campuses. “The whole community is shocked, grieved and enraged by the appearance of such remarks in a tertiary institution in Hong Kong ... I deeply regret and condemn such behaviour.” Education University said security camera footage showed two youths on Thursday afternoon posting 12 sheets of A4 paper on the campus “democracy wall” spelling out a message of “congratulations” to Undersecretary for Education Christine Choi Yuk-lin after her 25-year-old son plunged to his death from a residential tower in Yau Ma Tei. The university’s student union, which took down the poster as it was responsible for managing the wall at the Tai Po campus, said it did not support the message, but stopped short of condemning it. The school is trying to track down the two responsible, but it is not clear if they are students or outsiders, as the wall can be accessed by the public. Education University council chairman Frederick Ma Si-hang said: “I would like to ask everyone in Hong Kong to answer one question: if they were parents, would they want their children to be educated by the two young persons?” The university is the city’s only tertiary institution dedicated to training teachers. Ma promised a thorough investigation and disciplinary action against those responsible. A teary-eyed university president, Stephen Cheung Yan-leung, said: “The people who put this message up showed no compassion; instead they chose to add insult to injury and rubbed salt into the wound.” Education minister Kevin Yeung Yun-hung joined in the condemnation, warning that “moral and legal considerations” should also matter when exercising freedom of speech. The university’s student union took a more muted stance. “We do not support the statement, but we have to also respect that some people have these kinds of thoughts,” union president Lala Lai Hiu-ching said. At the same time, the union also cautioned the university against taking any action to curtail freedom of speech. “If any student is punished for making any ethically controversial remarks, we believe that students will become more afraid of expressing their own opinions ... and even indirectly lead to ‘white terror’ on campus.” However, the chief executive insisted that freedom of speech and university autonomy were no excuse for spreading fallacies as she also condemned pro-independence banners and posters on campuses. Despite the outrage, internet users continued to taunt Choi online, although many more also came to her defence. The former secondary school principal’s appointment as the city’s No 2 education official in July was widely opposed by many critics who were suspicious of her pro-Beijing credentials and worried she would be instrumental in introducing national education to the school curriculum. Civic Passion lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai took a shot at Choi on his Facebook page while commenting on recent suicides at the start of the academic new year. “It is deeply saddening and regretful. Officials in the Education Bureau, today you’ve finally understood the brutality of the education system when karma fell on you.” he wrote. “Don’t blame the crowd for being insensitive, because this karma is what you planted by yourselves.” Additional reporting by Shirley Zhao You are signed up. We think you'd also like
Education University (EdUHK) and the Education Bureau have condemned messages that “congratulated” a government official’s son after his death. The eldest son of Education Undersecretary Choi Yuk-lin died after falling from a Tsim Sha Tsui flat on Thursday morning. The reasons for the incident are still unknown. Signs bearing the slogan “Congratulations Choi Yuk-lin’s son on going west” subsequently appeared on the campus’s Democracy Wall, on top of banners supporting freedom of expression and Hong Kong independence. Signs saying “Congratulations Choi Yuk-lin’s son on going west” appeared on top of other signs protesting the removal of banners advocating independence on Education University’s Democracy Wall. Photo: Chung Kim Wah/Facebook. EdUHK issued a statement condemning the signs and apologising for any hurt they may have caused. “The school would like to reaffirm that, whilst we enjoy our rights to freedom of expression, we should also use a peaceful and reasonable attitude to discuss different events, and respect others’ feelings. In this case, the offensive acts are shameful – we hope that the posters of the signs will be able to self-reflect,” it said. The university said that it is reviewing CCTV footage and will take action where necessary. Messages attacking the family were also posted online: “You knew that your son was depressed. Instead of spending time with him, you accepted a promotion and became even busier, leaving your son to be taken care of by a domestic worker. What an educational role model! You don’t even know how to be someone’s mother, how can you educate other people’s children? You are such a failure, you should resign,” one commenter said on discussion forum LIHKG. Another user attacked the Education Bureau for not “breaking a sweat” sooner over previous teacher and pupil deaths. Localist lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai aired similar sentiments on Facebook: “Now that something has happened so close to you, Education Bureau official, do you finally feel the cruelty of the education system? Don’t say that the people piling on are being insensitive – because these are the seeds that you have sowed.” ‘Inhumane monsters’ The Education Bureau (EDB) said that it “severely condemned the vicious and maliciously offensive behaviour” of the people responsible for the signs at the university, and thanked school authorities for taking immediate action. Choi Yuk-lin. File Photo: Apple Daily. On Thursday, pro-Beijing lawmaker Ben Chan launched a petition urging EdUHK to find the person responsible for the signs. “Demand that Education University use CCTV to uncover the inhumane monsters, and expel them from the school, to prevent this animal from becoming a teacher and misguiding their children!” he said. The university’s student union issued a statement saying that it was not responsible for the signs, and that it had sent representatives to take them down. It said the university should not use the event as an opportunity to curtail students’ right to freedom of expression. “We have still not been able to confirm if the involved party is a student of the university. In any case, it is clear that if a student is punished by school authorities as a result of a morally controversial statement, it will lead students in the future to be scared of expressing their views, self-censoring, and creating white terror on campus,” said the statement. The union said that the university should respect the autonomy of the student union in managing the Democracy Wall. “Whilst we disagree with Ms. Choi on her educational policy, we will not kick someone when they’re already down due to a difference in opinion. We hope that the deceased is able to rest in peace,” it said. Choi was appointed education undersecretary in July despite controversy over her pro-Beijing political stance. If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. The Hong Kong Society of Counseling and Psychology provides a WhatsApp hotline in English and Chinese: 6218 1084. See also: HKFP’s comprehensive guide to mental health services in Hong Kong  Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.
 Suicides in Hong Kong Anisha Abraham says it’s vital to understand the related problems of stress and depression among Hong Kong’s young people, and how to deal with them. Equally important, our youth must be encouraged to open up about their feelings and learn to handle adversity Comments:    There has been a startling number of suicides among young people in Hong Kong in the past few weeks. The spate has helped spur discussion about stress and depression and the need for change. As a paediatrician and teen health expert, I have spent the past two weeks speaking to young people in the city’s secondary schools about stress, identifying strengths and cultivating resilience. From my discussions, it’s clear some of our students are struggling with issues and need a way forward. While the actual suicide rate among those aged between 15 and 24 in Hong Kong has increased only slightly over the past five years, the number of teens who report being depressed is of concern. A citywide survey found that nearly half of secondary school students showed signs of depression. From our pilot study of incoming students at Chinese University, nearly a third reported having depressive symptoms in the past five years and 7 per cent had been suicidal, but very few have ever been screened or counselled for mental health concerns. Why are kids in Hong Kong reporting high levels of depression, attempted suicide, cutting and other behaviour? Having lived in Hong Kong for years and recently moved to the Netherlands, a few key factors stand out. One is the pressure to perform well academically. When speaking to students, they uniformly agreed that academic pressure is one of the top reasons for stress. One told me that parents often set unrealistic expectations. She cited a friend whose mother would severely chastise her for any grade lower than an A. Another teen told me that he sometimes receives text messages from friends who are thinking about hurting themselves because of the pressure to fit in and to do well. A second factor is the lack of downtime. Students are often required to go from one tutorial or activity to another, with a rare break for relaxation. A third issue is the difficulty for young people to openly communicate their feelings of worthlessness and frustration to others, and the stigma that exists about having an issue and receiving counselling. One student disclosed she had been cutting herself for a year, but was afraid to tell her parents. Another factor is the significant use of social media and the internet. Quite a few of the students I spoke to knew someone who was often on social media or video game sites. The heavy use of “screen time” may lead to disengagement from regular interactions and contribute to feelings of poor self-worth and addiction. Yet another concern is that we’re not adequately preparing young people to face failure or rejection and to be resilient. I’ve seen students fall apart once they joined university or started a job because they didn’t know how to handle having poor grades, conflict or face other challenges.  How can we prepare kids to handle problems, communicate, turn off the screen, be less stressed and relax? After moving to the Netherlands from Hong Kong, I was surprised to learn very few Dutch children receive tutorials after school. In fact, most Dutch kids ride a bike or play sports after school. What’s more, local schools have a half-day in the middle of the week and open one hour late on Fridays. Dutch parents are extremely candid about discussing issues with kids (such as depression, sex and drugs) and give them a much higher level of autonomy at younger ages. This may all explain in part why Dutch kids are often cited as the happiest children in the world. Most of the students in Hong Kong whom I spoke to told me that they had experienced stress. Quite a few said they were regularly stressed. Studies have shown that chronic stress during childhood can have lifelong negative effects on the developing brain. Kids need to be given tools to handle depression and stress at early ages. They should know that constantly feeling sad and stressed is not normal and be encouraged to exercise, practise yoga and mindfulness, get adequate sleep, turn off the screen, and so on. Also, they should be encouraged to have open discussions about their feelings. More focus should be given on asking young people about self-worth, suicide, and depression on routine exams, as well as providing confidential counselling services in school settings. In my experience, asking young people if they are suicidal does not increase the likelihood of them becoming so, but provides an opportunity for them to discuss why they are contemplating it in the first place. Young people should also be encouraged to cultivate a healthy self-esteem. Students told me they are concerned about their peers being depressed, but are unsure of what to do. Teens should be educated to get adults and professionals involved if they notice warning signs of depression among their friends. Finally, resilience is the ability to get up and move on after a setback. By allowing kids to fail and problem-solve at young ages, they learn how to handle life’s curveballs before they lose their safety net. We need to convey to youth that it’s how we handle adversity that helps defines us and predicts success, not having the top grades. I applaud the recent efforts of schools, organisations and the government to increase awareness and help alleviate youth stress and depression. This is so crucial. We need to do more. Anisha Abraham is an adjunct associate professor at the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, and visiting associate professor in the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Amsterdam, Netherlands You are signed up. We think you'd also like

The Diplomat Despite rising numbers of suicides, Hong Kong official insist the education system is not to blame. In the course of just 17 days in February this year, Hong Kong has seen five students take their own lives. Just a month earlier, the city’s legislature had convened a special session to address the rising number of student suicides. “In the classroom, I was not allowed to move, drink water, eat, go to the toilet, or talk,” said Chan Yu-ling, a fourth-grade primary school student, at the Education Bureau’s Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. Chan’s whose parents eventually removed her from the local school system and placed her in an international school. “The teachers spent little time teaching. We spent most of our time doing mock exams,” she added. Hong Kong’s education system has been consistently referred to as a pressure cooker. Between 2010 and 2014, Hong Kong saw an average of 23 student suicides a year, according to the University of Hong Kong’s Center for Suicide Research and Prevention. In 2016 alone, 35 students took their own lives. The spate of suicides has led the government to establish a Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which called for a review of the education system in November of last year. Confucian cultures across Asia share a common thread of placing academic stress on students’ mental health. Culturally speaking, academic success is highly respected, not only for the individual student, but also their families. This has resulted in education systems centered on exams, and in many countries test scores alone can determine whether students are admitted to university. At the same session held by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, secondary school history teacher and member of the Hong Kong Professional Teaching Union Cheung Siu-chung said that the suicides are “the accumulative effect of the education system… students are evaluated like stocks, and teachers are like fund managers who need to boost the stocks,” he said. “How can you expect students to not feel pressure?” In spite of these testimonials, the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides ruled that the education system was not a direct cause of the suicides. This was later echoed by Education Secretary Eddie Ng Hak-kim. The score-driven culture is universally hated by parents, yet it is also something that few dare to challenge. The fear of putting their child at a disadvantage by withdrawing them from the current Basic Competency Assessment (BCA, formerly known as the TSA) curriculum means that not many parents are willing to chance their luck at challenging the current system. On February 19, 2017, several politicians and activists from the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention demanded the government set up a high-level interdepartmental platform to look into the problem of student suicides. Calling for Ng to withdraw his statement and to step down, they directly attributed the suicides to the government’s city-wide BCA, which they said puts undue pressure on students as young as eight years old. “It just can’t keep going like this,” said lawmaker Fernando Cheung Chiu-hung. “The government must discard the TSA and BCA. Exam stress is unbearable for our kids.” A petition was submitted to the government calling for the formation of a high-level interdepartmental platform. The same petition was given to chief executive hopeful Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, who used the issue to make a pitch for her candidacy, saying that should she win, she will pick an education secretary with heart.
 Hong Kong schools Key causes are stress from university entrance exams and concern about future prospects, study finds Comments:    More than half of Hong Kong secondary school pupils show symptoms of depression while a quarter display signs of anxiety, a study has found, with key causes being stress from university entrance exams and concern about their future prospects. The survey by Baptist Oi Kwan Social Service looked at 15,560 pupils in Form One to Six at 37 schools across Hong Kong, and found 53 per cent displayed symptoms of depression. That figure was higher than the 51 per cent recorded in the 2014-15 academic year, the 50 per cent in 2013-14 and 51 per cent in 2012-2013, when the same study was carried out. When asked what bothered them most, the top problems students identified were stress stemming from the Diploma of Secondary Education exams, other academic issues and concerns about their future. The situation was worse among upper secondary pupils, who were between 6 and 11 percentage points more likely to display symptoms of depression than those in lower secondary. “In the higher years, the DSE examination is drawing closer and they start thinking about the future,” social worker Thomas Fung Chak-tong said. Even more worrying was that about a fifth of the respondents said they had experienced suicidal thoughts, with 19.8 per cent saying they felt their life was empty and expressing doubt over whether it was worth living.  Some 3.4 per cent had thought of committing suicide a few times in the week prior to questioning, and 1.4 per cent had experienced detailed thoughts a few times every day about suicide, or had even attempted it. About 25 per cent of respondents displayed symptoms of high anxiety. That figure was 2 to 6 percentage points lower than four years ago. Scarlet Poon Fung-oi, service coordinator at Baptist Oi Kwan, urged the Education Bureau and experts to look into the pressure brought by the DSE exams. Social worker Fung said: “A lot of pupils feel that the DSE examination is solely responsible for determining their future and begin feeling worried at a young age.” Before 2012, teenagers sat two public exams in Form Five and Form Seven. Chris, a student who declined to give his real name, said he was suffering from depression, and had started experiencing symptoms in 2013 when he was in Form Two. “I was leading a very fulfilling and busy life, but after I was put in an elite class, I started feeling quite lonely and stifled as I did not have much to talk about with my classmates,” he said. “I was also alone most of the time as my mother and I moved to another flat away from my grandmother after they didn’t get along.” As his condition became more serious, Chris started skipping classes and even not attending school at all over a period of months. Last year, he attempted to take his own life by overdosing on sleeping pills. With professional help and medication, his condition is improving. He urged others experiencing depression to find people to talk to, and said sufferers must learn not to be too critical of themselves. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Victor Fung Keung says with the majority of local students reporting emotional problems, the new administration could use some of the extra HK$5 billion to hire clinical psychologists and boost counselling services Comments:    Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor is missing a key area as she doles out an extra HK$5 billion a year in education spending. The main beneficiaries will be students of self-financed degree programmes in private universities, as each would receive a HK$30,000 subsidy, while local students attending universities on the mainland would get a ­HK$5,000 subsidy.Contract teachers would benefit as well, as most would become tenured staff. However, the chief executive should also have allocated some of the HK$5 billion for hiring clinical psychologists to be stationed in primary and secondary schools. A recent survey revealed nearly 70 per cent of young students in Hong Kong are emotionally disturbed. Unfortunately, in the current situation, 20 schools (each with 700 to 800 students) share one clinical psychologist. Clinical psychologists can counsel students about emotional problems before they escalate and the youngsters end up hurting themselves or even committing suicide. Educators say they would like to see more support for depressed students. The survey found that those who were most unhappy had spent more time online and were more likely to have suffered cyberbullying. This, in turn, caused some to react aggressively online, becoming bullies themselves. Others suffered deep depression. The study, released last week, polled 3,000 students aged 10 to 16 and was led by Dennis Wong Sing-wing, associate dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences at City University. While Wong said the government should carry out a survey of students’ mental health, school principals hope more counselling services could be allocated. According to the survey, carried out from April to June last year as part of a five-year study commissioned by the government’s Quality Education Fund, around 64 per cent of students felt worried or frustrated. More than half felt useless. Psychologists say these feelings described by students are classic symptoms of depression. Some may turn more inward and become deeply depressed, while others may become bullies. Principals say schools are desperately short of mental health professionals, such as clinical psychologists. While they can educate students about cybersecurity and the need to uphold decent values, more must be done to help students tackle their mental health issues. Let’s hope Lam and her team pay attention to the principals’ calls and allocate some of the HK$5 billion to where it can do a lot of good; principals should, after all, know what is needed most. Victor Fung Keung is an adjunct professor at Hong Kong Shue Yan University You are signed up. We think you'd also like
A 14-year-old boy ended his life on Tuesday morning. He was the fifth to die in six attempted suicides by Hong Kong students within 17 days. The boy wore a school uniform when he died at Wah Fu Estate in Aberdeen around 7am. Wa Fu Estate. Photo: Wikicommons. His suicide may be linked to a scolding by his parents for spending too much time on computer games the night before, local media reported. The school said in a statement that its teachers and students were devastated by the news. It has set up a crisis management group and urged parents to notify the school if their children appear to be in distress. Another suicide A separate student suicide took place last Friday. A 15-year-old boy who attended an international school took his own life at Times Square in Causeway Bay at around 10pm. He told his family that he was unhappy at school prior to his action last Sunday, according to local media. The student was an enthusiast in rooftopping, a practice of taking photographs at the top of skyscrapers. He left a note on Instagram thanking his friends and social media followers before Sunday. His family has since switched the account from public to private. See also: HKFP’s comprehensive guide to mental health services in Hong Kong Time Square. Photo: Google Street View. Last Monday, a 15-year-old student ended his life in Ma On Shan, possibly related to worries over academic grades. Two student deaths from suicide were reported immediately after the end of the Lunar New Year holidays. A 16-year-old died on February 5 in Ma On Shan, while a 13-year-old died on February 6 in Tsing Yi. A 12-year-old student attempted suicide earlier this month, also reportedly due to academic pressure. She was prevented from doing so by firefighters and police officers. Last year, 35 cases of student suicide were reported. If you are experiencing negative feelings, please call: The Samaritans 2896 0000 (24-hour, multilingual), Suicide Prevention Centre 2382 0000 or the Social Welfare Department 2343 2255. The Hong Kong Society of Counseling and Psychology provides a WhatsApp hotline in English and Chinese: 6218 1084. Correction 22/2: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the incident surrounding the 15-year-old boy occurred on Sunday.  Comments 

 

 © 2016 Hong Kong Free Press Limited. Design: Tom Grundy, Corellian & SZS.

 Comments:    In the article (“Put an end to stereotypes for students’ sake”, January 12) Paul Yip says those who criticised the Education Bureau’s Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides report were “misinterpreting” the report’s message and trying to “only blame the school system” rather than recognising the “complexity of the suicide situation”. This couldn’t be further from the truth. All serious research on suicide recognises that there are usually multiple factors; nobody is suggesting otherwise. True, many of those who testified in the Legislative Council earlier this month focused on the intense pressure that students experience in Hong Kong schools, but there was no misinterpretation or misunderstanding. They were responding to a report that goes to great pains to avoid saying that academic pressure is an important factor in student suicide. It ignores academic research and even Hong Kong government reports that contradict this conclusion. The wording of the report’s denial is chosen carefully, as if written by a lawyer or politician trying to squirm out of a tight corner. It claims that “there is no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system”. But there are plenty of links, and a mountain of evidence linking school and test pressure to student suicide. The Social Welfare Department’s child mortality reviews from 2006 to 2011 showed schoolwork pressures were linked to between 29 per cent and 42 per cent of youth suicides. According to the report of the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, the bureau’s own data showed 24 per cent of primary and secondary school students who committed suicide were known to be worried about their academic performance, but this is somehow ignored in the report’s conclusion. Numerous surveys show the biggest sources of pressure for Hong Kong students are tests and homework. Those who spoke up in Legco were not misinterpreting the report. Parents, teachers, and so many others who care deeply about Hong Kong’s children have had enough of doublespeak. We need to protect our children. Yip writes that we should “look for evidence-based measures to ... ensure the school system helps those in need”. We couldn’t agree more, and the evidence in this case is strong and clear: excessive testing, homework, and academic pressure may produce high test results, but they are overwhelming Hong Kong’s children. A frank and honest public discussion, and comprehensive reform of the education system, is urgently required. Odilon Couzin, Citizens’ Alliance to Prevent Youth Suicide You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Education A judge for the science and maths category is Science Museum director Paulina Chan, who is looking for youngsters with ‘passion’ and purpose Comments:    The Hong Kong Science Museum plans to feature more locally-done research to encourage young Hongkongers to pursue a career in the sciences, its new director has said. But in addition to government support for research and innovation, Paulina Chan Shuk-man said she hoped more people would hone their curiosity and understanding of science. These are two qualities that Chan will look for when she judges the scientist and mathematician category of the South China Morning Post Student of the Year Awards. The 37th edition of the awards, which will be held on March 17 at Kowloon Shangri-la Hotel, honours secondary school students for outstanding achievements in academic subjects, sports, the arts, personal growth and contributions to the community. One of the nine categories is the grand prize for Student of the Year. The awards are supported by the Hong Kong Jockey Club and the Education Bureau. Earlier this month, Chan told the Post of her passion for science as a youngster and how it led her to becoming the head of the museum. “After graduating with a biology degree, I did not immediately enter a related job,” she recalled. “But I did not give up on my passion for biology.” After several administrative jobs, she joined the Hong Kong Museum of Arts, which led to a job as curator at the Science Museum. This year, she became its director. Chan said her previous work experience had helped her in her current role, and this was a message she wanted to share – that those keen on a science career but who lacked the right opportunities just yet should view every job as a learning experience. In judging the awards, she would look for a student who has “passion for the sciences and has the mission to spread this.” Specifically, she would be looking for someone who could demystify science – as something interesting and helpful to the masses – and who possessed good communications skills. Chan added that she also hoped to see innovative ideas from the candidates that could change Hong Kong’s research and development scene. Local researchers have often lamented that Hong Kong’s R&D spending lags behind that of developed countries, with Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor setting a target for the city to double this expenditure to 1.5 per cent in her term. But Chan said besides resources, people needed to take a greater interest in science. While there were more after-school science activities for students now, there were also more distractions for students, such as the use of smartphones, she said. Chan said the museum would do more to demonstrate the opportunities available to youngsters if they wanted to pursue a career in the sciences. She highlighted a current exhibition on graphene – a planar form of carbon that is super lightweight, highly conductive and ultra-strong – featuring research from Polytechnic University and an upcoming exhibition featuring a solar car developed by students from the Vocational Training Council. For the community contributor category, one of the judges, Scarlette Leung, executive director for corporate planning, communications and membership at the Jockey Club said she would be looking for someone who is both self-aware and socially-aware. “Knowing your own strengths and weaknesses enables you to empathise with others and puts you in a practical position to help them,” she said. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
A 21-year-old Canadian-Israeli woman on a student exchange program at Chinese University of Hong Kong committed suicide in a student dormitory in Sha Tin on Monday evening. At about 9pm, Gil, a third year psychology major who had been in the city since January, was found by one of her two roommates after hanging herself to death in a room at the International House 1, Oriental Daily reported. Gil was pronounced dead after firemen and medical staff arrived, Apple Daily reported. Police found a suicide note in the exchange student’s room and ruled out foul play after an initial investigation. A university spokesperson said the institution was saddened by the loss of Gil’s life and would offer assistance to her family. The Education Bureau is considering recommendations from the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was established after a spate of student suicides last year. There have been more than 70 student suicides in the city since 2013. If you need help, The Samaritans runs a 24-hour multilingual suicide prevention hotline on +852 2896 0000.

A file image of secondary students attending an English class in Hong Kong. Academic pressure is one factor blamed for suicides among young people in the city. (Photo by Mike Clark/AFP) Seventeen students — aged from 13-25 — jumped to their deaths in Hong Kong during the first four months of this year, almost half of the total 38 suicide cases in 2016. The rising number of suicides by young people has shaken Hong Kong society. Form four student Siu Chui told a seminar organized by a Christian group in April that she thought suicide was a cowardly act until she saw a boy jumping off a building a few months earlier. From there she began to reflect why there has been an increase in student suicide numbers. "In my case, after going up a class, I have lots of tests, homework, and evaluation. We need to absorb all the knowledge in a short time to catch up with the syllabus. Frankly speaking, I'm a little tired and confused," said Siu who is in her mid-teens. "After I go home I want to rest but my parents nag me to use the time to study, saying that if I don't, I cannot enter a good university and find a good job," she told the seminar that was held at the Applied Theological Education Center of Hong Kong Baptist Theological Seminary. "I really want to plug my ears. I'm still struggling to manage my present, so how can I think of my future?" she asked. "I believe that students commit suicide mainly because the education system in Hong Kong has problems and that too much pressure is imposed on students," Sui said. "In addition, there is pressure from parents." More than 10 percent of Hong Kong students think of suicide, was one of the findings from a research team from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. From that number, form two students (aged 12-13) are the most at risk with nearly 15 percent of them having suicidal inclinations. More than 5 percent planned to commit suicide and nearly half of those with suicidal inclinations have suicidal behavior. The university research team in the early July published two follow-up studies which they have been doing for five and six years respectively. In the studies, they tracked more 10,000 secondary school students to better understand their satisfaction with life, suicidal tendencies, academic stress and school supports. Both studies found that the level of satisfaction of secondary school students has been gradually decreasing from forms one to six (12 to 17 years of age). No single factor Lawmaker Shiu Ka Chun agreed that students committing suicide was the result of Hong Kong education system putting too much pressure on them. "Students don't understand why they need to learn. They cannot see the future and think themselves as tools of their parents to get good results and a high paid job," he told ucanews.com. However, there are principals, parents, and teachers who believe student suicide is not caused by a single factor. Christian secondary school teacher Ng Kwok Ming points out that academic, family and interpersonal relationships are the triggers. "They are the problems that students face often. Many problems are cumulative and a trigger makes students commit suicide," said Ng. Shung Tak Catholic English College principal Joseph Kung said, "We cannot comment on the whole situation while just looking at our school, we will say that study is a pressure, but not the first cause. The first reason is unhappiness and having problems with their families." "What happens after students go home is difficult for us to control," he said. Another lawmaker Fernando Cheung Chiu Hung told ucanews.com that the working hours of parents are affecting family relationships. Hong Kong's working hours are 50 hours a week, the longest in the world, according to a UBS survey. "That is why we have been asking for legislation to limit long working hours," said Cheung. Faith helps Two mothers — Bonnie To and Maria Choi — both face problems in getting along with their children. But they told ucanews.com that they are fortunate to have religion that helps them guide their children with Beatitudes, Ten Commandments and the story of Jesus’ temptation. They also pray with their children. A Catholic school teacher said she and her colleagues teach students to meditate with the "Psalms" and "Ecclesiastes", and also broadcast religious songs which have touched her students. They also teach students to respect life because it is God's gift. Kung said he would refer to the core values of the Catholic Church and the "Half Full and Half Empty theory" to counsel his students. "Learn to look at your cup of water as being half full instead of half empty. Learn to appreciate and have gratitude," Kung said. "With a positive view of life, we believe when God closes the door, He will open a window."
 Suicides in Hong Kong Investigations show domestic helper tried to prevent incident before man, 25, locked himself in bedroom and jumped from window Comments:    The eldest son of Hong Kong’s No 2 education official jumped to his death from a luxury residential building in Yau Ma Tei on Thursday. Paramedics and police were called to the Sorrento housing estate near Kowloon MTR station on Austin Road West following a report from a security guard shortly before noon. The guard had found a man lying on the ninth-floor podium of one of the tower blocks in the complex, a police spokeswoman said. He was taken unconscious to Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Yau Ma Tei, where he was later certified dead. The man was identified as Poon Hong-yan, 25, the eldest son of Undersecretary for Education Christine Choi Yuk-lin, according to a government source. The source said the victim and a domestic helper were in a flat on the 41st floor of Tower Three at the time of the incident.  “Initial investigations showed he tried to jump off the building from the living room but was stopped by the helper,” the source said. “He then went to his bedroom and locked the door before he jumped out of the window.” It was understood the domestic helper called his father after the incident. She only realised he had jumped when officers later arrived. According to police, no note was found at the scene and initial investigations did not reveal any suspicious circumstances. The source said the victim had a record of depression. Poon, a physiotherapist at North District Hospital in Sheung Shui, had been involved in an accident during a triathlon more than a year ago. Wu Siu-wai, vice-chairman of the Federation of Education Workers, a local teachers’ union, said he recalled Choi losing a lot of weight after her son’s accident. He said she was a very caring mother. Choi was the group’s vice-chairwoman before taking on the undersecretary’s post.  In a statement issued through the Education Bureau, Choi expressed her gratitude for the concern shown for her family and also asked the public for space to get through the difficult time. Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yun-hung said he was saddened by the incident and expressed his condolences to Choi’s family. “We will make every effort to support the undersecretary and walk with her during the difficult period,” he said in a statement. The federation and the Professional Teachers’ Union both extended their condolences to Choi and her family, saying they were very saddened. In a book published in 2015, Choi describes her eldest son as very structured and detailed in his work and her younger son as a “cheerful and happy” child with a passion for music. According to Chinese media reports, the son, Peter, was a physiotherapist at the North District Hospital. It was reported that he had just started working there weeks ago. He furthered his studies abroad after graduating from the La Salle College in Hong Kong. He was a sports fan and liked riding cycling and running. It was reported that he was seriously injured in an accident last year while riding a bicycle and had suffered from depression since.  She says she offered her sons immense support and always reminded herself to respect their choices and passion and learn to admire their unique qualities, while not forcing her own thinking on them. Choi was appointed the new undersecretary for education in August despite strong objections from opposition pan-democrat politicians who were suspicious of her pro-Beijing credentials. She was previously in charge of school-based curriculum development at the Education Bureau before becoming the principal of the conservative Fukien Secondary School (Siu Sai Wan). Additional reporting by Carmen Yam If you are feeling stressed or are in need of support, you can contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000 or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Suicides in Hong Kong Pair, who both suffered from mental health issues, were found dead in a Tsuen Wan flat Comments:    A man and his mother, who both suffered from mental health issues, were found dead in a Tsuen Wan flat in a suspected suicide pact on Sunday. The 30-year-old son’s former girlfriend went to the flat in the City Point residential estate on Wing Shun Street at about 4pm on Sunday after the man had sounded strange to her during a phone conversation they had at about 10am, a police source said. The 26-year-old woman entered the home and found the man and his 57-year-old mother were both unconscious, with burnt charcoal close by.  She called for an ambulance. Both the mother and son were confirmed dead at the scene. Investigators found no suspicious signs on Sunday. They believed the pair had committed suicide together. Son of Hong Kong deputy education minister jumps to his death from 41st-floor flat No suicide note was found. Another police source said the man and the woman had both suffered from psychosis and had been consulting doctors at Kwai Chung Hospital. Investigators found that they had left the flat together at about 9am on Sunday morning and returned about 20 minutes later with a bag of what was thought to be charcoal, according to the source. The man’s friends told officers he had run a pub before becoming a full-time stock investor at home. Postmortem examinations will be conducted. Tsuen Wan district crime squad was investigating. Where to get help – 24-hour hotline at Suicide Prevention Services: +852 2382 0000 – 24-hour hotline at Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong: +852 2389 2222 – Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care: +852 2868 1211 You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 Hong Kong's government is investigating a recent rise in the number of student suicides. It is recommending counselling for young people under pressure and better training for teachers. Hong Kong's government is investigating a recent rise in the number of student suicides. It is recommending counselling for young people under pressure and better training for teachers. But many say the government is refusing to accept that the wider system needs changing. Al Jazeera's Sarah Clarke reports from Hong Kong.  Sign up for our newsletter to receive a weekly email of our best content Ninety-nine years since Balfour's "promise", Palestinians insist that their rights in Palestine cannot be dismissed. In the rundown Pedion Areos Park, older men walk slowly by young asylum seekers before agreeing on a price for sex. The story of a most-wanted fugitive and billionaire. 
					© 2018 Al Jazeera Media Network 
	  Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement
A subject not easily broached in most societies, suicide is a particularly difficult topic to discuss openly in Chinese culture, where talking about death in general is traditionally taboo. Even in cosmopolitan Hong Kong it’s an issue that is rarely afforded the platform – or the resources – it merits, with government efforts to raise awareness and provide support often criticized for being inadequate, ham-fisted and out of touch, while suicide-prevention NGOs and charities such as the Samaritans are often effective yet underfunded.  But a spike in student suicides in Hong Kong over the past 18 months, including a spate of five schoolchildren aged between 13 and 16 taking their own lives from February 5-21 this year, has dragged the issue inescapably into the public eye and heaped pressure on the government, and in particular the Education Bureau, to tackle the problem with something more than token measures.  Despite setting up the ‘Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides’ in March 2016, the government’s response thus far has been underwhelming. In its final report, submitted in November, the Committee found that “there is no substantial direct link between student suicides and the education system.” And on February 23, Secretary for Education Eddie Ng announced the government’s intention “to build a new culture in schools” in which “mutual caring will be important,” without offering specific details of how that goal might be achieved. Moreover, while student suicides in Hong Kong have garnered the headlines, they represent only around 2% of the city’s annual suicide statistics (23 aged 10-19 out of a total of 1,022 deaths in 2015), with the most at-risk demographics being the over 70s (roughly 20%), 50-59 (19.5%) and 40-49 (roughly 16%) – suggesting that there is much work to be done in other areas of society, too. Against this backdrop, an Ireland-based suicide awareness and prevention charity is launching its inaugural Hong Kong event on May 6. Founded in 2006 to offer free counselling to the suicidal and those who have been bereaved by suicide, Pieta House has been drawing attention to the subject and raising funds through its annual Darkness into Light marches since 2009. What began with around 400 people walking a 5km course at dawn in Dublin’s Phoenix Park has quickly grown into a worldwide movement; more than 130,000 people participated globally in 2016 and the event will take place in around 150 locations this year, including cities in the UK, Canada, Denmark, the UAE, Australia and South Korea. “Hong Kong and Ireland both suffer from high rates of suicide, and it’s a topic that people often avoid talking about,” says Niall Kelly, a Hong Kong-based Irishman who is the driving force behind bringing Darkness into Light to the city. “I think it was the case in Ireland maybe 30 or 35 years ago, when people were wary or ashamed of [talking about suicide], but now with the likes of Darkness into Light, people are much more aware.”  “Hong Kong and Ireland both suffer from high rates of suicide, and it’s a topic that people often avoid talking about” The march, which is expected to attract up to 1,000 people, begins at 5am at Sun Yat-sen Memorial Park, in the Sai Ying Pun area of Hong Kong Island, on May 6, with participants walking a 5km loop that brings them back to the starting point as the sun rises around 6am – timings that symbolize the event’s goal of bringing the subject out of the shadows and into the light. Kelly says the response so far has exceeded his expectations and that he is already planning to expand the event next year – he even talks about the possibility of developing it into a weekend-long festival with wellness, music and arts elements.  As well as raising money for Pieta House and local suicide-prevention NGO The Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong, Kelly says he hopes the event can help lessen the stigma associated with suicide and encourage people to talk about it and seek help. “The aim is to get people aware of the crisis of suicide, and to alert people to the preventative measures and services that are available,” he adds.  Whether the event can have a meaningful effect on suicide prevention in Hong Kong – or resonate with local as opposed to expat residents – remains to be seen, but attempting to break the taboo while demonstrating the universal nature of the issue is certainly a step in the right direction. “The truth hurts,” as Mark Twain once wrote, “but silence kills.” The first Darkness Into Light march in Hong Kong will take place on May 6. Sign up here.

 Suicides in Hong Kong But critics say report fails to propose extra resources to hire more teachers, social workers and psychologists to better identify and help students at risk Comments:    Advisers on student suicide prevention have ruled out the city’s education system as a direct cause of the phenomenon, even though they are calling for a review of the system to reduce students’ burden and recognise non-academic achievements. But the final report prepared by the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, which was submitted to the Education Bureau on Monday, stopped short of calling for more teachers, social workers and psychologists to better identify and help students with problems, prompting educators and social workers to call for extra resources to tackle the problem. Students at breaking point: Hong Kong announces emergency measures after 22 suicides since the start of the academic year “Our focus is not on adding extra manpower, but how to do better with our current resources,” said Michelle Wong Yau Wai-ching, deputy secretary for education and vice-chairwoman of the committee formed in late March after more than 20 students killed themselves in the first half of the last school year . The report,which analysed 71 student suicide cases between the 2013-14 and 2015-16 school years, concluded that student suicides were probably the result of mental health problems, negative attitudes and stress from both family and studies. It recommended 19 measures to tackle the problem ranging from training teachers and parents to become gatekeepers to making use of social media to spread positive messages. The suggestion to review the education system, which is known to pressure students with homework and tests, was briefly mentioned at the end of the report. The report also urged the bureau to strengthen students’ ability to handle stress and recognise their talents instead of just their academic achievements. Education minister Eddie Ng Hak-kim emphasised on Monday that the report did not find a direct causal relationship between suicide cases and the education system. But he added that the bureau had in recent years reminded schools to reduce homework and drilling exercises and simplify assessment methods. Depression hits half of Hong Kong secondary pupils and a quarter have considered suicide, study finds But committee chairman Professor Paul Yip Siu-fai said only 20 per cent of those who had committed suicide were known to suffer from mental problems, in contrast to more than 90 per cent of overseas cases. “Many students with mental health problems weren’t actually identified in a timely manner,” he said, adding that teachers and students should be trained to identify students at risk. Yet, the report does not recommend increasing manpower to relieve understaffed schools, with some counselling professionals having to take care of 800 students on their own. Fung Pik-yee, vice-president of the Professional Teachers’ Union and a retired headmistress, said teachers did not have time to observe and identify students with poor mental health as they often had to handle teaching and administrative work. She said more teachers should be hired so the ratio of classes to teachers in primary schools could be increased from the current 1:1.5 to 1:1.9. Education lawmaker Ip Kin-yuen said the bureau was shirking responsibility and a thorough review of the education system was needed. Social welfare lawmaker Shiu Ka-chun said it was “impossible” without more resources for integrated family service centres to find “hidden parents” of students who were at risk as they were already overburdened with cases like family violence. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
'Gatekeeper' call to prevent student suicides Mental health education should be strengthened to make every teacher, student and parent "gatekeeper" in preventing student suicides, said a committee set up after a spate of students taking their own lives. The Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides yesterday submitted its final report to Secretary for Education Eddie Ng Hak-kim after six months of analyzing 71 student suicides in the past three academic years.  It found that 20 percent of the victims were suffering from mental health problems, compared with overseas figures of about 90 percent. It indicates that students with mental health problems were not identified early enough, said Paul Yip Siu-fai, committee chairman and director of the Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong. Yip said mental health education can empower everyone at school to pick up certain signals of mental illness, so that early intervention is possible to save lives. Asked about the teachers' hectic schedule and availability of resources, Yip said the measures should not burden teachers as training services will be delivered to schools. The Education Bureau should provide schools with additional resources to boost mental health and well-being education, the committee suggested. Apart from the "gatekeeping" training, support should also be given to parents, such as outreach education programs by the Social Welfare Department and non-governmental organizations, to locate the hard-to- reach or hidden parents in struggling families. Yip said Hong Kong "has a lot of problems" to deal with when it comes to the education system, for example, the exam-oriented culture and the low university admission rate, which put pressure on the students. However, the report said suicidal behaviors are caused by various factors, including mental health issues, psychological concerns, family relationship and adjustment problems, peer relationship problems, as well as school adjustment and academic stress. "According to the report by the committee, there is no direct correlation between student suicidal cases and the overall education system per se," Ng said. He said the bureau will study when to put the committee's suggestions into practice and that the government has already taken measures to reduce homework stress for students and simplify the curriculum. Education-sector lawmaker Ip Kin- yuen, however, expressed regret at the conclusion and accused the bureau of turning a blind eye to calls for a complete reform of the education system. "The cause of student suicide is for sure complicated but support from school definitely plays an important part. The committee should study the relationship between student suicide and education," Ip said. There were 18 student suicides in the period from January to April this year, compared with four between May and August. Yip attributed the drop to efforts by the whole community and responsible media, as data showed that sensational reports may cause a copycat effect. Other than traditional media, the committee suggested the government should also strengthen promotion of online citizenship in social media.  Today's Standard 
            Trademark and Copyright Notice: Copyright 2018, The Standard Newspaper Publishing Ltd., and its related entities. All rights reserved.
            Use in whole or part of this site's content is prohibited. Use of this Web site assumes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Privacy Policy Statement
and Copyright Policy.  Please also read our Ethics Statement.
          
 Police found blood and signs of a fight in flat belonging to the man and woman Comments:    Police were investigating a suspected murder-suicide on Monday night after a woman was found dead next to her husband, both having fallen from their 28th-floor flat in a luxury apartment block. She had knife wounds in her neck, back and arms. Officers found a pool of blood and damaged furniture in the living room of the couple’s flat, and a trail of bloody footprints leading to the balcony from which they fell. Fong Yin-ting, 29, and her husband Chow Wai-fai, 30, fell from the flat in The Coronation, Yau Ma Tei. A security guard found their bodies and called police just before 6.30am. It is understood the couple were government employees who married two years ago. The husband had been accused of having extramarital affairs, and had moved out of the flat last week. Police are also looking for a taxi driver who took Chow from Kowloon City to the luxury housing estate in Yau Ma Tei at about 4.30am. “Police would like to find out about Chow’s mental state at the time,” another police source said. Police said Chow got back to the flat before 5am, when neighbours heard what sounded like a row inside the flat. The husband and wife were dead about 90 minutes later. They fell onto the patios of fifth-floor flats. Chief Inspector Lam Chi-yuen of the Yau Tsim district crime squad said they were declared dead at the scene.  Police broke into the couple’s flat, which was locked from inside, and found no one else inside. “A pool of blood was found in the living room, where some furniture was moved and damaged, suggesting there was a fight,” a police source said. He said officers found knife wounds in the woman’s neck, back and arms. The source believed Fong was attacked and moved from the living room to the balcony where she was thrown from the building, before her husband jumped down. Knives were found in the kitchen basin and police believed one of them, about 20cm long, had been used as a weapon. No suicide note was found at the scene. “We don’t rule out the possibility that knife wounds led to her death,” Lam said. He said further tests were needed to establish the cause of her death. Fong was an acting information officer at the Information Services Department and her husband was an acting senior foreman at the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department’s cleansing section, according to a government source. Police were treating the case as murder-suicide, and appealed for anyone with information to contact officers on 3661 9245. You are signed up. We think you'd also like

Police are investigating a suspected murder-suicide case involving a man and his wife who were found dead after falling from their luxury apartment in Yau Ma Tei in the early hours of Monday, Apple Daily reports. The bodies of Chow Wai-fai, 30, and his wife Fong Yin-ting, 29, were found on the patios of fifth-floor flats at The Coronation at 1 Yau Cheung Road, apparently having plunged from the couple’s rented unit on the 28th floor. Fong’s body had knife wounds to the neck, back and arms. Chief Inspector Lam Chi-yuen of the Yau Tsim District Crime Squad said investigators have yet to confirm whether the knife wounds or the fall was the cause of Fong’s death, but ruled out the possibility of a third party as the door to the flat was locked from the inside. The couple, both civil servants, were married only two years ago after dating for eight years since they met at a part-time job during their university days. Chow was senior foreman at the Eastern District Food and Environmental Hygiene Department while Fong was an information officer at the Information Services Department. Friends and family members said Chow had moved out of their flat last Friday after his wife accused him of having an extramarital affair.  He had been staying at a hotel on Sa Po Road in Kowloon City, and the families of both parties had been notified of their separation. Fong had told her friends that she suspected Chow of having an affair after checking on his phone and had even wanted to hire a private Investigator to gather more evidence, hk01.com reported. Chow is said to have been seeing a university student whom he had met via Instagram. Fong had reportedly told her family that she was thinking of seeking a divorce. At around 4 a.m. on Monday, Chow took a taxi to their apartment in Yau Ma Tei and an argument with his wife ensued, police said.  Chow then must have stabbed his wife, threw her off the balcony, and committed suicide afterward. Officers found a pool of blood and damaged furniture in the living room of the couple’s flat, and a trail of bloody footprints leading to the balcony.  They also found a washed six-inch ceramic knife in the sink, which is suspected to be the murder weapon. Another knife was found inside Chow’s backpack, but there were no notes inside. Police were looking for the taxi driver who took Chow to The Coronation. The Food and Environmental Hygiene Department and the Information Services Department have offered their condolences to the families of the couple. – Contact us at [email protected] EL/BN/CG 
A fatal final embrace - Cheating husband stabs wife before grabbing her in double death plunge An unfaithful husband repeatedly stabbed his wife and dragged her to the balcony before embracing her in a deadly leap from the 28th floor of a luxury apartment in Yau Ma Tei, police said. The couple, both civil servants, were found dead in pools of blood - with the woman stabbed on her back, hands and neck - early yesterday morning on the podium of The Coronation, an upmarket  residence, after what police called a fierce fight. Their apartment was a mess, with signs of a fight, pools of blood, bloody footprints and a 15-centimeter ceramic knife. Police classified the tragedy as suspected homicide-suicide. The scorned wife, Tiffany Fong Yin-ting, a 29-year-old government information officer, demanded a divorce after she discovered her husband of two years, Chow Wai-fai, had cheated on her. Chow was a 30-year-old pest unit supervisor in the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department's eastern district. Chow moved out of their rented flat last Friday, but returned to confront his estranged wife yesterday before daybreak. Surveillance footage showed Chow entered the estate's Block 7 alone, and police are now looking for the cab driver who drove him to The Coronation at 1 Yau Cheung Rd. After 5am, the pair fell from the 28B flat to the fifth-floor podium. Police received the call at 6.23am and initially recorded the incident as a fall. Both victims had multiple bone fractures and internal injuries. Police also found trails of blood-red footprints from the couple's living room to the balcony, where the pair fell, indicating a fight had happened. The knife was found in the kitchen, and the woman appeared to have multiple knife wounds on her back, hands and neck. Police did not say if the man had stab wounds. Police had to collect evidence under umbrellas in case crucial forensic information was lost as heavy rain pounded Hong Kong. Yau Tsim Mong Regional Crime Unit is investigating, with West Kowloon Police Tactical Unit assisting. The chief inspector of police of Yau Tsim District, Lam Chi-yuen, said police are investigating in the direction of homicide-suicide. "However, we have yet to work out the exact chronology of the events," Lam said. "No suicide note was found and there was no third person in the apartment." He also appealed to the cab driver who drove Chow from Sa Po Road in Kowloon City to Yan Cheung Road at 4.24am. "The driver or anyone with related information should call us at 3661-9245," Lam said. It is understood that the couple had not been to their offices lately. According to Fong's family, she had snooped her husband's phone when he was showering and found he had been cheating on her. The enraged wife had planned to hire private detectives but eventually decided to divorce Chow and he moved out of the flat last Friday. Chow worked at the FEHD while the wife had worked as a Home Affairs Department information officer before transferring back to the Information Services Department headquarters. Both departments expressed condolences to the families and promised to offer support if needed. "Everyone in ISD is deeply saddened by the news," an ISD spokeswoman said. "We will offer counselling to colleagues if necessary."  People feeling emotionally troubled should seek help from suicide- prevention center Samaritans at 2389-2222. Today's Standard 
            Trademark and Copyright Notice: Copyright 2018, The Standard Newspaper Publishing Ltd., and its related entities. All rights reserved.
            Use in whole or part of this site's content is prohibited. Use of this Web site assumes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Privacy Policy Statement
and Copyright Policy.  Please also read our Ethics Statement.
          
There has been a rise in student suicides in the city in recent years. More than 60 youngsters took their lives between September 2015 and April this year, or an average of three students each month. When there are so many such tragedies, society appears to have become accustomed to the situation, as if it’s the new “normal” in today’s Hong Kong. And a vicious circle seems to be happening; more suicides “goad” more disgruntled students to take the same path. Parents, and society as a whole, need to do some soul-searching as to what factors are pushing our students off the edge – heavy loads of schoolwork, anxiety over academic records, disputes with family members, relationship problems with boyfriend/girlfriend, etc. A student who grows up in a happy family is unlikely to commit suicide. Parents and other family members are the first and last ones that a student with suicidal issues can count on. One’s bond with parents may slacken during adolescence when the emotionally tumultuous period is often aggravated by inadequate communication with parents and disagreements over choice and outlook. Instead of trying to rein them in and forcing them to accept a set of values, parents should be more accommodative to their kids, who are in a precarious stage of transition toward adulthood. Treating adolescents with respect and showing them that we are willing to listen to them can go a long way in helping them sail through a bewildering period in their lives. The home can be a safe haven and a launch pad for youngsters as they explore and decide on the path of life they should take, and especially when crunch time comes. But if parents always resort to censure and suppression whenever their kids revolt against their expectations or simply become less tractable, they risk alienating the young adults, who may choose some radical ways to escape from bridled circumstances rather than seeking help from the family. This may add up to their feeling of estrangement, which may lead them to consider suicide as an option. A lesson from many rueful parents is that some students may try to keep their stress under wraps even when they have long been feeling despondent or even thinking of ending their lives. Parents need to spend time with their children to listen to their views and anxieties. Psychologists tell us that taking one’s own life is a result of long planning and emotional struggles, which always involve a host of factors. Spur-of-the-moment suicides are exceptionally rare, as they are against human nature and instinct for survival. It may take up to 90 days, with multiple phases, from thinking of suicide to actually committing it. These phases can be summarized by five Ds: difficulty leads to disorder, then to desperation, and in turn a decision to end one’s life, including when and how.  The final stage is “discharge”, in which he or she may dispose of items they used to love or value a lot. Parents must ask themselves: Does suicide really occur without any indication, or is it just that parents fail, or are too busy, to take note of them? This article appeared in the Hong Kong Economic Journal on July 8 Translation by Frank Chen  [Chinese version 中文版] – Contact us at [email protected] FC/YH/CG Read more: To students: Why you’ll miss your schooldays like we do 
 Crime in Hong Kong No injuries discovered on body of Form Six student, who had gone missing after leaving her Mid-Levels home on Sunday Comments:    The citywide search for a teenage girl who went missing after leaving her Mid-Levels home ended on Monday afternoon with the discovery of her body in Victoria Harbour. Form Six student Chin Yu-ying, 17, was found dead in the waters off Wan Hoi Street in Hung Hom hours after her family reported her disappearance to police. No identifying documents were found, but the body matched her description. Her family later confirmed the body’s identity. No injuries were found on the body, and initial investigations found nothing suspicious, according to police. An autopsy will be carried out to establish the cause of death. The Post learned that Chin had not shown any suicidal tendencies or had any arguments with her parents before disappearing. She lived with her parents in a luxury flat on Babington Path in the Mid-Levels. Her mother is believed to be a government employee. Chin was last seen on Sunday afternoon, when she left her home. Her family contacted police on Monday after she failed to return home that night and could not be reached. A citywide search was launched following the report. Patrolling officers were alerted to look out for the girl, and police issued a public appeal for help in the search. Chin was last seen wearing a long-sleeved grey chequered shirt, dark trousers, black shoes, a white watch and carrying a black canvas bag. If you are feeling stressed or in need of support, contact the Samaritan Befrienders’ 24-hour hotline on 2389 2222, Suicide Prevention Services on 2382 0000 or the Society for the Promotion of Hospice Care on 2868 1211. You are signed up. We think you'd also like
 City Weekend The key to preventing such tragedies, according to Professor Paul Yip, is building a more caring environment, whether at home or at school Comments:    Suicide prevention is not an easy task in Hong Kong, but one man has built a career on it. With more than two decades of experience in suicide research, Paul Yip Siu-fai is now in his 14th year serving as the founding director of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. Recently appointed chairman of the government’s new Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides, Yip is also a professor of social work and administration at the University of Hong Kong and a recipient of the International Association for Suicide Prevention’s Stengel Award in 2011. In Hong Kong, suicide prevention has become a hot button issue in recent months as a result of a spate of student suicides earlier this year. Last year there were 70 youth suicides and 23 cases of full-time student suicides. The centre estimated the suicide rate in Hong Kong last year to be about 12.6 per 100,000. Although the rate has been decreasing for more than 10 years, the suicide rate among young people aged 15 to 24 spiked to an estimated 8.5 per 100,000 last year, up from the 6.2 per 100,000 in 2014. With World Suicide Prevention Day on Saturday, Yip aims to raise awareness of the importance of suicide prevention and call on Hongkongers to work together to create a more caring and nurturing community. Nine Hong Kong schools chosen for pilot scheme to prevent student suicides In addition to reducing the stigma attached to mental illness in the city, Yip hopes to advocate for better support services for dysfunctional families and vulnerable groups such as young people and the elderly. How did you get into this position and become interested in this work? Suicide is like the tip of the iceberg. It really reflects the well-being of society. In 2002, there had been an increasingly high suicide rate due to the emergence of a new method of suicide by charcoal burning, and the University of Hong Kong formed a team to tackle the problem including psychiatrists, social workers, pathologists, statisticians and public health researchers. At that time, suicide research in Hong Kong was quite fragmented. I was trained as a biostatistician so I always looked at the figures. I had done quite a bit of suicide related research since 1995, and I published a paper on suicide numbers in 1996 about the suicide rate between Beijing, Hong Kong and Taiwan in the British Journal of Psychiatry. I was appointed as the founding director of this centre, and we were very fortunate. We had a group of people who thought: hey, we’re in the University of Hong Kong and we can do anything. There was a challenge. We believed that we needed a multidisciplinary approach to tackle the problem. In our early work, we did a lot of work providing support to survivors. When we meet the survivors, we do feel that a lot of pain has been inflicted on them and we believe that it can be avoided. That actually gave us the motivation. We have a strong conviction – we care about the people and at the same time we would like to help them. I can see the changes, after we did the programme and set up a bereavement group. I’m very passionate towards society. It’s always very sad when any suicides occur. Can you describe some of the factors that contributed to the recent spike of student suicides? I went through the secondary school system in Hong Kong, and I still don’t think that it can bring the best out of people. I feel like at that time we had pressure, but not as much as kids do now. Our young people now have more mental well-being problems. Our data suggests that 94 per cent suffer from more than one problem. Student suicides in Hong Kong signal distressing lack of mental health support for our youth Academic pressure is also not the only factor. We believe that up to now, based on data, [the spike] is because of a copycat effect. When there are two or three cases, it builds up an energy and becomes explosive. Then a lot of people who might not have taken suicide as a normal way to solve their problems, because of this extensive coverage, begin to see this abnormal behaviour become normal. The news media has not been very conducive to suicide prevention. But in the past six months, I do think that they have become more forthcoming and sensitive when reporting on suicides. You are also chairman of the government’s recently established Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides. What steps are the committee taking to tackle this issue? We are talking about some short, medium and long-term ways of improving the well-being of students. For short-term, we are talking about how to empower school personnel like teachers and social workers. There’s the issue of early identification of pupils who have problems. We would also like to improve the support system in schools. The Hospital Authority is working with us to send nurses to schools to talk to social workers and parents and students to improve treatment for people who are mentally unwell. We’re talking about how to provide training to school teachers, and infrastructure changes. We would like to train students to be gatekeepers as well. The Quality Education Fund will provide funding of HK$150,000 for each school to come up with ways to help the well-being of schoolchildren. We are also talking about the systemic problem of exam-oriented curriculums that don’t give enough space for young people and teachers. Most importantly, we need to build up relationships between teachers, students and families. As a community, what can we do to better prevent suicides? I think in Hong Kong we need to think about how we can cultivate a more conducive family relationship. It’s essential. Among the 34 suicides cases we have looked through, they all suffered from relationship problems. They did not feel that their family was close enough. They felt disconnected and alone. Among the cases, half of them were from complicated families, for example with parents who are divorced, remarried or single. These people do not have sufficient support. If are facing an increasing number of dysfunctional families in Hong Kong now, how can we make families be functional again? Or, how can we use the community to make up for this deficiency? Every time a student commits suicide, people talk about having more social workers. But when we ask students who they want to talk to when they have a problem, social workers are at the bottom of the list. They want to talk to their friends, their classmates. We need to build up a more caring environment, whether at home or at school, and try to remove barriers like academic pressure. When we look at suicides among school children, both parents usually have to work. They just don’t have time to talk to them. We hear parents say that even if they did have time, their children would not talk to them. But that’s not true. When we look at death notes left by young students who committed suicide, they ask for the forgiveness of their parents. Reading them, I nearly cried. That is really tragic. The older generation has to be more empathetic and adaptive. In Hong Kong, people also spend more than half of their time in the workplace. So, we need to ask: how can we make our workplace more friendly? People are depressed because of work. Everybody has a responsibility [to make things better]. Aside from students, what other groups in Hong Kong are vulnerable to suicide? Also, how does the city’s suicide rate compare to other places? The elderly, above 65, have a suicide rate of I think double the general population. They also suffer from this disconnectedness. They feel that either they do not have sufficient help, or they are a burden to their families. That is also very sad. The shortcomings of our present [health care] system include long waiting queues, elderly care centres that are understaffed and age homes with inhuman situations. I just got back from Australia and I met my relative there who is 85 and lives in an elderly home. She’s very happy because they have a garden there, she has her own room. But in Hong Kong, to have a home and a garden you need to pay HK$20-30,000 a month. For her, it’s all paid for by the government. Can’t we do something about this? Hong Kong is not short of money. We do have the money, but we just haven’t put it to the right use. For our suicide rate, we are slightly below the world average. But if you compare us to Korea, Japan and Taiwan we are the lowest at about 12.6 per 100,000. Each year we have about 800 or 900 people kill themselves. But that means that every day we have about two or three people committing suicide – that’s not a small number. We always say that one is too many. Can you talk about the stigma against mental illness? In Hong Kong, politically we are so polarised, there is income poverty, we have so many vulnerable and disadvantaged people. It’s simply not right. I always say to people that if they are mentally unwell, it’s OK and it’s not uncommon. It’s not something that should be stigmatised. But in Hong Kong we still have a stigma. If you have cancer, people are sympathetic to you. If you tell people you are mentally unwell, everyone will stay away from you. So we have to raise money for our centre, which is self-funded. When you talk about depression or mental illness or suicide prevention, people have this attitude of ambivalence and they think that there’s not much we can do. Actually, there’s a lot of people who are very ambivalent when they are about to commit suicide. If you can step in, provide support, they can be helped. I hope that this stigma of mental illness can be further eliminated in our society, and that we can build up a more caring society. What advice do you have for people looking to enter social work, particularly suicide prevention? Try to be more empathetic and compassionate. You also need to remember to be optimistic. We have a team of very committed people and we do debriefing all the time. If you take the burden of suicides on yourself, that is not good. So, first of all, don’t kill yourself. Second, be a gatekeeper for other people. At this moment, we’re working with Facebook as a research collaborator in promoting the mental well-being of users. Nowadays young people don’t call, they would rather type something on Facebook and share it online. You need to give [gatekeepers] some training on how seriously they should take these warnings. I believe that everyone can be a gatekeeper to others. If everyone can do this, we can create a safety net so that no one can fall through the cracks. What are some of the most important lessons you’ve learned? I’ve become more appreciative of what I have. Sometimes we feel like somebody owes us something. Everybody thinks that they deserve something more. As a matter of fact, when we look at suicide notes by these unfortunate people, when you see what they’ve gone through, I think I’m very grateful for what I have. If you do not have this heart of gratefulness, you’ll always have a sense of bitterness and apprehension about everything. If everyone is always complaining about something, we will not be happy. For me, I’ve tried harder to understand other people’s needs and make sure that no one kills themselves. For those who are more fortunate, please help others. What I really hope is that the whole community can raise awareness and start caring more about other people. The centre launched a webpage providing recommendations on suicide prevention: http://wecare.csrp.hku.hk/ You are signed up. We think you'd also like
>>>>>>> dac151d6166d58e5751b922e046fbf2663ae01db
